https://www.cod.edu/academics/academic_opportunities/honors/pdf/independent-study-form.pdf


Revised 11-12-20     1
COLLEGE OF DUPAGE HONORS PROGRAM 
Honors Independent Study Proposal Form 
Instructor Name:   Date of Submission: 
For Term/Year:   
Phone/Extension: Instructor’s email address: 
Department/Course Number: Course Name:   
Beginning date:   End date:   
Credit hours:   Lecture hours:   Lab hours: 
Student Name:   Student’s I.D. No.:   
Student’s Phone No:   Student’s school email address: 
List Previous Honors Course(s): 
For Honors Program office use only.  Date Received: Initials: 
Instructions: 
Please see the “Honors Independent Study Guidelines for Students and Faculty” for instructions and deadlines. 
Two forms need to be completed and approved so the student can enroll in the class as an Honors section: 
1.The division’s regular Independent Study form will need to be approved by the instructor’s Dean in
order to have a course created in which the student can register.
2.The Honors Independent Study form needs to be approved by the Honors Program in order for the
course to be given the course type of “Honors.”
Submit these two completed forms to the Director of the Honors Program, Honors Program Office, BIC 3418, 
630-942-3318, honorsprogram@cod.edu.
Deadlines: Thursday of the second week of class after Fall, Spring or Summer term begins. 
Early submissions are encouraged. 

Revised 11-12-20      2
Abstract: Provide a brief summary. What is the topic, what will the product be, and what are the possible 
venues for having the student share their product? (100 to 300 words) 
The student is required to have a product of some kind that will be presented to an audience. Please check one: 
 Paper/Essay 
 Professionally printed poster* 
 PowerPoint-type presentation 
 Demonstration 
 Artwork 
 Musical composition 
 Computer program 
 Other, please specify:   
*Contact Writing, Reading and Speech Assistance for help creating a poster.
The instructor and student will work with the Director of the Honors Program to find a suitable audience. Please 
check one: 
 A presentation to a small group in the Honors conference room 
 A presentation to a class 
 A submission to a publication for undergraduate student work such as COD’s Essai or the 
    National Collegiate Honors Council’s UReCA 

Revised 11-12-20      3
 Presentation at the Honors Council of the Illinois Region’s Student Symposium in February 
 Presentation at the COD Library Student Research Symposium 
 Other, please specify:   
Honors course criteria are separated into core criteria and elective criteria.  All Honors Independent 
Study courses must address the core criteria. Elective criteria are optional. The purpose of listing criteria 
is to demonstrate how the Honors Independent Study is qualitatively different from a regular 
Independent Study. These criteria help distinguish an Honors Independent Study from a regular course.  
Briefly explain how this project will encourage the development of the required Core Criteria. For example, 
what are the anticipated assignments, readings, topics of discussion? Demonstrate how the Honors Independent 
Study is qualitatively different from a regular Independent Study. (Up to 100 words per Core Criteria) 
Briefly explain how this project will incorporate any of the optional Elective Criteria. If an Elective Criterion is 
not applicable, simply put N/A. Elective criteria can help distinguish an Honors Independent Study from a 
regular course. (Up to 100 words per Elective Criteria) 
  Elective Criteria The Proposed Honors Independent Study will include: 
Field Trips/Field 
Work 
Service Learning/ 
Community 
Engagement (e.g. 
volunteer project)* 
Core Criteria          The Proposed Honors Independent Study will include: 
Independent/Critical/ 
Creative Thinking 
Reading (e.g. required texts, 
types of publications, etc.) 
Writing (e.g. assignments) 
Active/Interactive Learning 
(e.g. Application Activities, 
Laboratory Experiments, Data 
Collection) 
Conducting Research and/or 
Primary Source Analysis 

Revised 11-12-20      4
Innovative Pedagogy 
Interdisciplinary 
Approach 
*Contact the Service Learning office for criteria needed to earn Service Learning designation on transcript.
Signatures:   
Instructor:   Date: 
Student:   Date: 
Director of Honors Program: Date: 