https://www.cod.edu/academics/accreditation/pdf/2016-iccb-recognition-report.pdf


 
FINAL RECOGNITION REPORT 
COLLEGE OF DUPAGE 
 
 
February 2017 
ILLINOIS COMMUNITY COLLEGE BOARD 
 
  

 2 
 
 
 
 
 
Illinois Community College Board 
 
FINAL RECOGNITION REPORT 
 
FOR 
 
COLLEGE OF DUPAGE 
 
February 2017 
 
 
 
INTRODUCTION 
 
During fiscal year 2016, the Illinois Community College Board (ICCB) conducted a recognition 
evaluation of College of DuPage. Recognition is a statutory term describing the status of a district 
which   meets   instructional,   administrative,   financial,   facility   and   equipment   standards   as 
established by the ICCB.    All community colleges must be officially recognized to be eligible for 
state  funding.    Based  on  a  five-year  cycle,  recognition  evaluations  are  conducted  to  assure  that 
colleges are in compliance with specific standards. The standards selected for review during the 
current cycle are classified into four categories - Academic, Student Services/Academic Support, 
Finance/Facilities,  and Institutional  Research/Reporting.    This  report  is  organized  by  those 
categories and focuses on the findings and recommendations for each standard. 
 
Each standard includes a staff evaluation of the college’s performance based on the rules or statute 
being  examined.  Based  on  the  staff  evaluation,  the  college  may  receive  one  of  two  types  of 
recommendations:  compliance  or  advisory.    Compliance  recommendations  are  those  for  which 
the  college  was  found to  be  out  of  compliance  with  a  given  state  statute  or  administrative  rule.   
Advisory recommendations are made in instances where the review team identified areas that it 
believes would be beneficial for the college to examine or pursue. The latter are suggestions only.   
Due  to  the  low  number  and  type  of  compliance  findings  in  this  report,  the  ICCB  staff  will 
recommend that the Board issue Recognition Continued to College of DuPage.  
 
The staff of the Illinois Community College Board wishes to thank the college for its assistance 
and  efforts  in  conducting  this  review.  The  Board  acknowledges  that  the  college  is  involved  in 
numerous  positive  activities,  processes  and  initiatives  that  are  not  reflected  in  the  report  and 
commends the institution for its many efforts on behalf of students. 
 
 
 

 3 
EVALUATIONS RESULTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS 
 
1. INSTRUCTION 
 
 1a. Degrees and Certificates 
A  comparison  between College  of DuPage’s college catalog  and  the  ICCB 
Curriculum Master File indicates that all degree and certificate programs have been 
approved by ICCB. All active and approved degrees and certificates fall within the 
required credit hour ranges as defined in the  ICCB Administrative Rules Section 
1501.302 a)3)A)i). 
 
No  discrepancies between  the  college  catalog  and  the ICCB  Curriculum  Master 
File that  should  have  been  reflected  in  the  print  catalog  were  identified.  It  is 
important  to  note  that  College  of  DuPage  maintains its  online  college  catalog  to 
reflect  the  most  current  course  and  curricular  information.  If  any  instance  of 
discrepancy occurs between the online and printed catalog it is a direct result from 
the changes the college makes to curriculum throughout the year.    As a result the 
changes processed after the course catalog has been printed would not be reflected 
in the print catalog, but would be reflected in the online catalog.  
 
Compliance Recommendation: None. 
 
College response:    
 
 2a-b. Articulation 
College of  DuPage offers  the  Associate  in  Arts  and  the  Associate  in  Science 
degrees.   In   most   regards   the   specific   degree   requirements   parallel   the 
recommendations of the Illinois Articulation Initiative (IAI).    The college is also 
approved  to  offer  the  following specialized  degrees:    Associate  in Engineering 
Science and Associate of Applied Science in Fire Science Technology. 
 
According to the requisite Recognition standard, the college provided articulation 
information for 25 of the 25 Baccalaureate/transfer courses that were requested. A 
comparison of the reviewed courses with the college’s evidence of articulation 
(Form 13) submissions indicated that 25 of the 25 courses submitted had the three 
required  transfer  agreements  or  were  appropriately  coded  using  the  correct  IAI 
course code designation.    
 
The college identified that all AA, AS, and AA&S, degree requirements allow only 
courses  that  have  been  articulated  for  transfer.    Also,  the college has  confirmed 
that  all  articulation  is  documented  through  the  IAI  and/or  through  the  use  of  the 
articulation request form, Form 13.    
 
According to the ICCB Program Approval Manual, for courses that are offered as 
part  of  a  transfer  program  (AA  or  AS)  that  are  not  IAI-approved,  community 

 4 
colleges are  required  to  keep  current  (within  the last  five years)  articulation 
documents  on  file  and  available  upon  request  from  the  ICCB.  Evidence  of 
articulation includes signed Form 13’s or copies of current Transferology course 
tables. 
 
Compliance Recommendations: None.  
 
College response:     
 
 3a-b. Academic Control 
According to College of DuPage, all new programs, as well as dual credit courses, 
are developed according to college policy that requires review and oversight of the 
appropriate  college Dean  and Vice  President  of  discipline, the  Chief  Academic 
Officer, and with ultimate approval lying with the college’s Board of trustees, prior 
to submission to the ICCB and the Higher Learning Commission. Program Review 
has been consistent and has followed the published ICCB guidelines.    Faculty are 
evaluated  appropriately  and  consistently  with  the  colleges  policies  on  faculty 
evaluation, which are conducted annually.  
 
In  April  of  2015,  the  ICCB  conducted  a  special  on-site  visit  for  a  Focused 
Recognition evaluation    concerning    academic    standards    and    credit    hour 
certifications involving the Suburban Law Enforcement Academy (SLEA) offered 
at the college.    The College of DuPage in the summer of 2015 decided to cease all 
awarding  of  academic  credit  to  SLEA  cadets,  effective  October  29,  2015.    The 
college  has  removed  the  program  from  the  educational  unit  to  the  auxiliary  unit, 
which  completely  separates  the  College  of  DuPage  from  all  academic  processes 
and  approvals.    Additionally,  the  college  has  committed  to  ensuring  other 
Continuing  Education  classes  (eg.  Carpenter’s  Apprenticeship;  Pharmacy 
Technician; Real Estate) will not be associated with or cross-walked to academic 
credit  outside  of  the  existing  Guide  to  Curriculum  Development,  the  Contractual 
Agreement between  the  Board  of  Trustees  and  the  College  of  DuPage  Faculty 
Association,  and  without  faculty  support.   Furthermore,  college  staff  stated  that 
since  the  college  has  decided  to  discontinue  their  previous  practice  of  awarding 
academic  credit  for  the  SLEA program  and  moved  it  to  the  auxiliary  unit,  the 
Higher  Learning  Commission  (HLC)  has  found  the  college  fully  meets  the  core 
components 3.A and 4.A. as outlined by the HLC.    
 
Compliance Recommendation: None. 
 
College response:     
 
4a-b.  Curriculum 
A  comparison  between College  of  DuPage’s college  catalog  and  the  ICCB 
Curriculum Master File indicates that all degree programs are within the range of 
total  number  of  credit  hours  required  for  completion  of  an  associate  degree 

 5 
curriculum.  All  active  and  approved  degrees  fall  within  the  required  credit  hour 
ranges as defined in the ICCB Administrative Rules Section 1501.302. 
 
College of DuPage reported that the college currently requires all new courses and 
programs  to  be  presented  to  the College  of  DuPage Curriculum  Committee  for 
review.    The college stated that a significant drive behind all courses and programs 
being submit to the committee is to confirm that the new course or program adheres 
to the requirements set forth by statute and the ICCB Administrative Rules. 
 
The  College  recently  conducted  a  review  of  current  accreditation  and  industry 
credential  documents  and  advisory  committee  minutes  for  programs  that  are 
currently   accredited,   seeking   accreditation,   or   offering   industry   recognized 
credentials to determine consistency and appropriateness to the specific field.    The 
College  reviewed  programs  with  stackable  credentials  to  ensure  alignment  with 
industry standards.    
 
No  discrepancies  between  the  college  catalog  and  the  ICCB  Curriculum  Master 
File beyond what the college identified in their self-evaluation were noted. 
   
Compliance Recommendation: None. 
 
College response:    
 
 5a-e. Dual Credit 
As part of College of DuPage’s 2016 Recognition review, the following dual credit 
information  was  examined  in  order  to  determine  if  institutional  policies  and 
practices were in compliance with ICCB Administrative Rules 1501.507-11 A-E: 
1) the colleges self-evaluation, 2) data from the ICCB Annual Course submission, 
and 3) an audit of student qualifications and faculty credentials. To examine student 
qualifications,  ICCB  utilized the  Annual  Course  submission  to  select  100  dual 
credit  transfer  (1.1  PCS)  and  career  and  technical  education  (CTE)  (1.2  PCS) 
courses  for  review;  50  from  fiscal  year  2014  and  50  from  fiscal  year  2015. The 
college  was  then  required  to  conduct  an  audit  using  the  dual  credit  sample  and 
provide information related student qualifications. The college was also required to 
provide  a  list  of  all  faculty  members  teaching  dual  credit  courses  in  fiscal  years 
2014 and 2015, including their credentials.  
 
  Part A:    State Laws and Regulations and Accreditation Standards. 
Based on the review, staff concluded that all state laws, regulations, accreditation 
standards and local college policies apply to courses, instructional procedures and 
academic  standards  at College  of  DuPage.  These  apply  to  students  as  well  as 
faculty and staff associated with dual credit courses at the college. 
     
  Part B:    Instructors. 
During fiscal  years 2014 through 2015, it was  reported that 71 instructors taught 

 6 
transfer (1.1) dual credit courses. From this review, 33 instructors did not have the 
appropriate credentials to teach transfer courses. Additionally, it was reported that 
102 instructors taught career and technical education (1.2) dual credit courses. All 
career   and   technical   education   dual   credit   instructors   held   the   required 
qualifications. 
 
  Part C:    Qualification of Students. 
After  a  review  of  the  college  self-study  report  and  the  additional  audit  materials 
requested by the ICCB, no issues related to student qualifications were found.      
 
  Part D:  Course Offerings. 
The ICCB selected a total of 100 dual credit transfer (1.1 PCS) and CTE (1.2 PCS) 
courses for review; 50 from fiscal  year 2014 and  50 from fiscal  year 2015.   The 
course outlines utilized for these courses were the same as for courses offered on 
campus and at other off-campus sites.    
 
  Part E:    Course Requirements. 
The  ICCB  selected from  transfer  and  career  and  technical  education  courses 
consistent  with  requirements  for  dual  credit  offerings.  Courses  offered  met  the 
requirements for this standard. Prerequisites, descriptions, course outlines, student 
outcomes, etc., were consistent with on-campus offerings.  
 
Compliance  Recommendation: In  order  to  be  in  compliance  with  ICCB 
Administrative Rule 1501.303(f), College of DuPage must: 
 
1) ensure all  dual  credit  instructors  have  adequate  credentials  to  teach  the 
courses they are assigned, and that those credentials match those required 
to  teach  courses  on  campus. For  transfer  (1.1  PCS)  courses,  instructors 
must have a minimum of a Master’s Degree with 18 hours in the discipline. 
For  CTE  (1.2  PCS)  courses,  instructors  must  have  2,000  hours  of  work 
experience and the appropriate recognizable credential depending on the 
specific field and  
2) all full-time and part-time dual credit instructor files must be audited to 
ensure proper documentation of instructor credentials.   The college must 
develop  a  policy  and  procedure  for  continuously  ensuring that  all dual 
credit faculty qualifications are aligned with ICCB Administrative Rules, 
as well as provide a written report on the outcome of their audit within 90 
days  of  the  ICCB  Board  approval  of  this  report.    The  college  must 
provide ICCB with a written report one year from the submission of the 
audit report, on the college’s progress of aligning  all  dual  credit  faculty 
qualifications with ICCB Administrative Rules. 
 
College response:   Faculty members teaching in higher education should have 
completed a significant program of study in the discipline they will teach or 
develop curricula at least one level above that of courses being taught or 

 7 
developed. Those teaching general education courses (English, Math, Humanities, 
Speech, Social Sciences and Sciences) typically hold a master’s degree and should 
have completed substantial graduate course work in the discipline of those courses. 
In some cases, such as a practice-oriented discipline or programs, tested 
experience in the field may be needed as much or more than formal education 
preparation. Tested experience implies that some objective measure ensures that 
the individual’s knowledge and expertise are sufficient for determining what 
students must learn.  
 
College of DuPage has set the following minimum standards for all faculty in 
accordance with ICCB Administrative Rule 1501.303(f):  
 
f) Preparation of Professional Staff. Professional staff shall be educated 
and prepared in accordance with generally accepted standards and 
practices for teaching, supervising, counseling and administering the 
curriculum or supporting system to which they are assigned. Such 
preparation may include collegiate study and professional experience. 
Graduate work through the master's degree in the assigned field or area of 
responsibility is expected, except in such areas in which the work 
experience and related training is the principal learning medium. 
(Administrative Rules of the Illinois Community College Board, p. 31) 
http://files.eric.ed.gov/fulltext/ED430661.pdf  
 
AND 
 
In accordance with Dual Credit rules and directly affecting the hiring of dual credit 
instructors the following rule is applied: (Illinois Community College Board – 
September 2016, p.42)  
 
B) Instructors. The instructors for these courses shall be selected, employed 
and evaluated by the community college. They shall be selected from 
individuals with appropriate credentials and demonstrated teaching 
competencies at the college level. For transfer courses (1.1 PCS), these 
qualifications include a minimum of a Master’s Degree with 18 graduate 
hours appropriate to the academic field of study or in the discipline in 
which they will be teaching. For CTE (1.2 PCS) courses, these 
qualifications include 2,000 hours of work experience and appropriate 
recognizable credentials, depending on the specific field. (Illinois 
Community College Board – September 2016, p.42) 
 
For Faculty and Adjunct Faculty, the college complies with the following ICCB 
rule:  
 
3) Faculty and Staff  
 

 8 
A) The academic preparation and experience of faculty and staff ensure 
that the objectives of the unit of instruction, research or public service are 
met. 
 
B) The academic preparation and experience of the faculty and staff, as 
evidenced by level of degrees held, professional experience in the field of 
study and demonstrated knowledge of the field, ensure that they are able to 
fulfill their academic responsibilities. At a minimum, faculty shall have a 
degree from an institution accredited by a U.S. Department of Education 
recognized accrediting body or a degree from another country evaluated 
for U.S. equivalency in the discipline they will teach or for which they will 
develop curricula at least one level above that of the courses being taught 
or developed. 
i) Faculty providing undergraduate general education coursework 
shall possess, at a minimum, a master's degree in the field of 
instruction. 
ii) Faculty engaged in providing technical and career coursework at 
the associate degree level shall possess, at a minimum, a bachelor's 
degree in the field of instruction or equivalent training in the 
occupational field. 
iii)  Faculty teaching in a baccalaureate degree program shall have, at 
a minimum, a master's degree in the field of instruction.  
iv) Faculty teaching in a graduate program shall have a doctorate or 
terminal degree in the field of instruction.  
v) Exceptions may be made by the Board for professional experience, 
equivalent training and other qualifications; however, except in 
extraordinary circumstances, these should prove the exception and 
not the rule in meeting faculty qualification requirements. 
(Illinois Community College Board – September 
2016, p. 113)  
 
From these guidelines College of DuPage has developed the following 
interpretation:  
  
1. Those teaching 1.1 for transfer courses, that is courses which may be used 
as college credit towards a four-year degree and/or are Illinois 
Articulation Initiative (IAI) identified courses) must have a master’s degree 
in the content area, or a master’s degree plus 18 semester hours of 
graduate level credit in the discipline of instruction. 
2. Those teaching 1.2 non-transfer occupational/technical courses must have 
a bachelor’s degree in the field and/or a combination of education, training 
and tested experience.  

 9 
3. Individuals who do not explicitly meet college minimum degree and course 
work requirements for 1.2 occupational/technical (non-transfer) courses 
can be justified on an individual basis by documenting other qualifications.  
COD Credential Review Process  
 
College of DuPage uses the following process to ensure that faculty credentials in 
all areas of instruction have been vetted and verified. Unofficial credentials are 
required at the time of application and must be uploaded into the college’s 
applicant tracking system (Hiretouch) in a PDF format. Upon hire the faculty 
member is required to present official transcripts.      The recruitment/new checklist 
form is attached to all new hire paper work and submitted to HR for processing. 
The form establishes a record of review of credentials submitted and is sent 
through a routing review sequence with the following documentation attached: 
 Transcripts from all institutions of higher education awarding a degree 
and/or indicating applicable additional coursework  
 Documentation of relevant training and related testing, if required  
 Copies of licensures/certification, if required 
 
Official documentation from all post-secondary institutions attended must be 
provided by the granting institution in the form of an official transcript with detail 
listings of course work completed and if applicable degree(s) conferred.  
 
A transcript is considered official if an authorized electronic transcript is received 
from the National Student Clearinghouse transcript ordering service including the 
full record of the person’s academic course history at that institution, or if it meets 
the following requirements:  
 Printed on official paper, 
 Signed and dated by the issuing institutions Registrar  
 The full record of the person’s academic course history at that institution  
 Delivered to and received by designated (or appropriate) COD staff 
member in a sealed envelope, with issuing institution’s stamp and date 
across the sealed flap of the envelope (US post or hand delivery). If the 
envelope seal is already broken when received by the designated COD staff 
member, the document shall no longer be considered official.  
 
International credentials must be assessed as equivalent academic preparation by 
an approved evaluation service. Course work submitted by the faculty applicant as 
graduate credit must be clearly designated by the granting institution as part of a 
graduate program, or formally validated by the granting institution as graduate 
level study.  
 
The cover page from the institution will serve as verification the document is 
official. The necessary documentation is routed to the division deans who will 
examine individual credential packets for compliance with the stated guidelines.  

 10 
  
Approved packets will be routed to the Human Resource office as an official 
record. Human Resource staff members will add credential data to the appropriate 
data repository system(s) and file the credential packet in the individual's employee 
file. 
 
Annual review of Dual Credit instructor’s qualifications will be conducted by the 
Academic Affairs office of Academic Partnerships.  
 
COD Instructor File Audit and Written Report 
 
As required by the Compliance Recommendation, the College will conduct an audit 
of all dual credit instructor files and will provide ICCB with a written report on the 
outcome of that audit within 90 days of the ICCB Board Approved recognition 
report.  In addition, in one year following the submission of the initial written audit 
report, the College will provide ICCB with a progress report concerning the 
alignment of dual credit faculty qualifications with ICCB Administrative Rules.  
 
 6a. Assessment Plans 
College of DuPage is currently utilizing several tools in their review of assessment.   
For example, College of DuPage has in place a systematic process to assess student 
learning for each degree and certificate program.  The college uses data from the 
Program Review to evaluate student learning outcomes.   College of DuPage has a 
five-year cycle for course assessment, which allows each course to be assessed at 
least  once  during  the  ICCB  Program  Review  cycle.    The  college’s  Program 
Review  encompasses  a  component  that  addressing  not  only  student  learning 
outcomes, but requires faculty to report on the extent to which they systematically 
define  program  or  disciplinary  goals,  objectives,  and  outcomes,  as  well  as  the 
instruments  used  for  collecting  data  to  demonstrate  learning  outcomes.    In 
addition,  the  college  uses  data  from  Student  Outcomes  Assessment  Projects  to 
improve the quality of teaching and learning. 
 
College  of  DuPage also  has  a  similar  assessment  procedure  for  all faculty 
development.  In 2016, the Academic Affairs Department offered an Assessment 
Academy  comprised  of  six  workshops,  each  focusing  on  different  assessment 
topics.    Through  these  workshops  the  college  is  able  to  continue  to  build 
professional development opportunities for faculty, which builds on assessment of 
student learning outcomes at the course, discipline, and program level. 
 
Compliance Recommendation: None. 
 
College response:    
 
 7a. Student Evaluations 
 

 11 
College of DuPage has a well-defined system for evaluating and recording student 
performance in courses and programs.  College of DuPage’s Board Policy 20-125 
requires  the  establishment  and  publication  of  minimum  standards  of  academic 
achievement,  as  defined  by  grade  point  average,  credits  completed  in  relation  to 
credits attempted, and satisfactory academic progress.    The college also mandates 
that  the  College  maintain  and  publish  an  equitable  process  for  evaluating  and 
recording student performance in compliance with accreditation standards.    While 
there  is  not  one  prescribed  procedure  by  which  an  instructor  must  follow  for 
grading  criteria,  instructors  are  expected  to  demonstrate  sound  professional 
judgment  in  establishing  such  criteria  for  courses  and  for  communicating  those 
criteria  to  students  through  various  written  course  materials  including  the  course 
syllabus. 
 
Compliance Recommendation: None. 
 
College response:    
 
 8a. Faculty Qualifications/Polices 
College  of  DuPage reported  that  all  full- and  part-time  faculty for  transfer-level 
courses are required to obtain a Master’s Degree in the discipline they are assigned 
to  teach.    Occupational  faculty  must  have  the  appropriate  level  of  experience  in 
their field.    According to the requisite Recognition standard, the college provided 
transcript  evidence  for 60 of  the 61 requested  full- and  part-time  faculty.   The 
ICCB review of the 60 faculty transcripts provided by the college showed that nine 
faculty members were not qualified to teach 1.1 Transfer Courses.   The college’s 
review  of  faculty  files is  conducted  in  an  annual  audit  by  staff  from Human 
Resources  and  Office  of  Research  and  Analytics.    During  this  audit,  the  college 
will  randomly  select sample  sizes  from  both full-time  and  part-time  faculty 
personnel files from across all disciplines.    The college states the process provides 
multiple  review  opportunities  and  allows  staff  to  review  the  transcripts  to 
determine the degree which the hiring process has resulted in faculty meetings the 
minimum  requirements  as  outlined in  the  faculty  contract  are  appropriate  for  the 
given year of the audit and are in compliance with the indictors of compliance as 
outlined by the ICCB.    
 
In addition to reviewing faculty files, the college holds professional development 
trainings  through the Teaching  and  Learning  Center  (TLC) for  faculty and  their 
Academic  Affairs  partners.    The  college  also  has individualized  and  group 
technology related faculty assistance through the TLC.    The college does have the 
necessary   procedures   and   requirements in   place   for   determining   faculty 
qualifications are aligned with ICCB Administrative Rules.  
 
Compliance  Recommendation: In  order  to  be  in  compliance  with  ICCB 
Administrative Rule 1501.303(f), College of DuPage must: 
 

 12 
1) ensure all faculty meet ICCB Administrative Rule 1501.303(f) and ICCB 
Recognition Standard 8a Faculty Qualifications/Policies which states: 
   
 Professional  staff  shall  be  educated  and  prepared  in  accordance  with 
generally  accepted  standards  and  practices  for  teaching,  supervising, 
counseling and administering the curriculum or supporting system to which 
they  are  assigned.  Such  preparation  may  include  collegiate  study  and 
professional  experience.  Graduate work through the master’s degree in 
the assigned field or area of responsibility is expected, except in such areas 
in which the work experience and related training is the principal learning 
medium.   
The ICCB interpretation throughout the enforcement of these rules is that 
instructors  teaching  courses  that  are  designated  as  transfer (1.1)  courses 
must meet the Master’s Degree requirement and must have a minimum of 
18  graduate  hours  in  the  discipline.  With  regards  to  areas  in  which  the 
work experience and  related training is the principal medium, otherwise 
referred  to  as  Career  and Technical  Education,  Instructors  (1.2)  must 
hold   the   appropriate   credential   and   2000   hours   of   demonstrated 
experience in the field.   
 
Advisory  Quality  Recommendation: Full-time  and  part-time  instructor  files 
need to be audited to ensure proper documentation of instructor credentials.   
In  the  future,  the  college  needs  to  continuously  ensure  that  all  faculty 
qualifications are aligned with ICCB Administrative Rules. 
 
College response: Faculty members teaching in higher education should have 
completed a significant program of study in the discipline they will teach or 
develop curricula at least one level above that of courses being taught or 
developed. Those teaching general education courses (English, Math, Humanities, 
Speech, Social Sciences and Sciences) typically hold a master’s degree and should 
have completed substantial graduate course work in the discipline of those courses. 
In some cases, such as a practice-oriented discipline or programs, tested 
experience in the field may be needed as much or more than formal education 
preparation. Tested experience implies that some objective measure ensures that 
the individual’s knowledge and expertise are sufficient for determining what 
students must learn.  
 
College of DuPage has set the following minimum standards for all faculty in 
accordance with ICCB Administrative Rule 1501.303(f):  
 
f) Preparation of Professional Staff. Professional staff shall be educated 
and prepared in accordance with generally accepted standards and 
practices for teaching, supervising, counseling and administering the 

 13 
curriculum or supporting system to which they are assigned. Such 
preparation may include collegiate study and professional experience. 
Graduate work through the master's degree in the assigned field or area of 
responsibility is expected, except in such areas in which the work 
experience and related training is the principal learning medium. 
(Administrative Rules of the Illinois Community College Board, p. 31) 
http://files.eric.ed.gov/fulltext/ED430661.pdf  
 
For Faculty and Adjunct Faculty, the college complies with the following ICCB 
rule:  
3) Faculty and Staff  
 
A) The academic preparation and experience of faculty and staff ensure 
that the objectives of the unit of instruction, research or public service are 
met. 
 
B) The academic preparation and experience of the faculty and staff, as 
evidenced by level of degrees held, professional experience in the field of 
study and demonstrated knowledge of the field, ensure that they are able to 
fulfill their academic responsibilities. At a minimum, faculty shall have a 
degree from an institution accredited by a U.S. Department of Education 
recognized accrediting body or a degree from another country evaluated 
for U.S. equivalency in the discipline they will teach or for which they will 
develop curricula at least one level above that of the courses being taught 
or developed. 
i) Faculty providing undergraduate general education coursework 
shall possess, at a minimum, a master's degree in the field of 
instruction. 
ii) Faculty engaged in providing technical and career coursework at 
the associate degree level shall possess, at a minimum, a bachelor's 
degree in the field of instruction or equivalent training in the 
occupational field. 
iii)  Faculty teaching in a baccalaureate degree program shall have, at 
a minimum, a master's degree in the field of instruction.  
iv) Faculty teaching in a graduate program shall have a doctorate or 
terminal degree in the field of instruction.  
v) Exceptions may be made by the Board for professional experience, 
equivalent training and other qualifications; however, except in 
extraordinary circumstances, these should prove the exception and 
not the rule in meeting faculty qualification requirements. 
(Illinois Community College Board – September 
2016, p. 113)  
 
From these guidelines College of DuPage has developed the following 

 14 
interpretation:    
1. Those teaching 1.1 for transfer courses, that is courses which may be used 
as college credit towards a four-year degree and/or are Illinois 
Articulation Initiative (IAI) identified courses) must have a master’s degree 
in the content area, or a master’s degree plus 18 semester hours of 
graduate level credit in the discipline of instruction. 
2. Those teaching 1.2 non-transfer occupational/technical courses must have 
a bachelor’s degree in the field and/or a combination of education, training 
and tested experience.  
3. Individuals who do not explicitly meet college minimum degree and course 
work requirements for 1.2 occupational/technical (non-transfer) courses 
can be justified on an individual basis by documenting other qualifications.  
COD Credential Review Process  
 
College of DuPage uses the following process to ensure that faculty credentials in 
all areas of instruction have been vetted and verified. Unofficial credentials are 
required at the time of application and must be uploaded into the college’s 
applicant tracking system (Hiretouch) in a PDF format. Upon hire the faculty 
member is required to present official transcripts.      The recruitment/new checklist 
form is attached to all new hire paper work and submitted to HR for processing. 
The form establishes a record of review of credentials submitted and is sent 
through a routing review sequence with the following documentation attached:  
 Transcripts from all institutions of higher education awarding a degree 
and/or indicating applicable additional coursework  
 Documentation of relevant training and related testing, if required  
 Copies of licensures/certification, if required 
 
International credentials must be assessed as equivalent academic preparation by 
an approved evaluation service. Course work submitted by the faculty applicant as 
graduate credit must be clearly designated by the granting institution as part of a 
graduate program, or formally validated by the granting institution as graduate 
level study.  
 
Official documentation from all post-secondary institutions attended must be 
provided by the granting institution in the form of an official transcript with detail 
listings of course work completed and if applicable degree(s) conferred.  
 
A transcript is considered official if an authorized electronic transcript is received 
from the National Student Clearinghouse transcript ordering service including the 
full record of the person’s academic course history at that institution or if it meets 
the following requirements:  
 Printed on official paper  
 Signed and dated by the issuing institutions Registrar  
 The full record of the person’s academic course history at that institution  

 15 
 Delivered to and received by designated (or appropriate) COD staff 
member in a sealed envelope, with issuing institution’s stamp and date 
across the sealed flap of the envelope (US post or hand delivery). If the 
envelope seal is already broken when received by the designated COD staff 
member, the document shall no longer be considered official.  
 
The cover page from the institution will serve as verification the document is 
official. The necessary documentation is routed to the division deans who will 
examine individual credential packets for compliance with the stated guidelines.  
  
Approved packets will be routed to the Human Resource office as an official 
record. Human Resource staff members will add credential data to the appropriate 
data repository system(s) and file the credential packet in the individual's employee 
file. 
 
The College will conduct an audit of all instructor to ensure they are aligned with 
ICCB Administrative Rules.  
 
9a-c. Cooperative Agreements and Contracts 
As part of College of DuPage’s recognition review of cooperative agreements, the 
following  items  were  reviewed:  the  college’s  self-assessment    including 
accompanying   documentation,   a   list   of   all   current   cooperative   agreements 
including enactment dates, most recent revisions or amendments, other institutions 
entered into the agreement or contract, and the purpose. The college was requested 
to submit this information in a common template provided by ICCB. The college 
has numerous active  cooperative  agreements  involving  multiple  institutions. 
Several of these agreements date back to the 1980’s with no indication that this 
agreement has been revisited or revised. 
 
In 2012, College of DuPage signed a Career Agreement with various community 
colleges, which resulted in no continued effort to develop cooperative agreements 
with neighboring community colleges.    Since 2012, college staff stated that only 
two cooperative agreements have been developed by the college.    One agreement 
was  to  allow  students  in  the  Graphic  Design  Technology  program,  which  the 
college was closing, to finish out their degree at Harper College and the other is still 
in the process of being signed.   Additionally, in 2016 the college decided to join 
the    CAREERS,    a    comprehensive    agreement    that    expands    educational 
opportunities, which is a consortium with 27 other Illinois community colleges.  
 
Compliance Recommendation: None. 
 
Advisory Quality  Recommendation: Pursuant  to  Section  1501.307  of  the 
Administrative  Rules,  cooperative  agreements  are  to  be  approved  by  the 
ICCB.  However,  the  Board  realizes  that  an  approval  process  was  not 
implemented  or  enforced  for  the  system.  Moving  forward,  all  renewed  and 

 16 
original cooperative agreements must be approved by the Board. Please direct 
all cooperative agreements to the Academic Affairs division for approval.  
  
College response:   A Master Listing of all cooperative agreements is maintained 
by the Associate Vice President of Academic Affairs and retained in the Vice 
President of Academic Affairs office. This list was reviewed in 2015. The Associate 
Vice President of Academic Affairs reviews the list of programs available to district 
students on other campuses via cooperative agreement that is included in the 
Catalog. This was done prior to the most recent reprinting of the catalog for 
2015-2017. 
 
The Finance Department maintains a list of active cooperative agreements to use 
in determining tuition rates for out-of-district students enrolled in programs with 
cooperative agreements in place.    
 
College will: 1) review all existing agreements included on the master list for 
currency and delete programs that are no longer viable; 2) identify the process for 
the maintenance of a master listing; 3) identify the process for communicating 
changes to the cooperative agreements to all affected departments including the 
relevant academic department, marketing, registration, finance and admissions; 
and 4) submitted all future cooperative agreements to ICCB for approval. 
 
10a-c. Academic Calendar 
As  part  of  the  recognition  review  for  standard  10,  Academic  Calendar,  the 
following  items  of  the  college  were  reviewed:  2016-2017  Academic  Calendar, 
college  catalog  and/or  applicable  policy  handbook,  college  website,  and  the 
college’ self-assessment. The College of DuPage’s 2016-2017 Academic Calendar 
includes 16  weeks  with  75  full  days  of  instruction  for  both  the  fall  and  spring 
semesters excluding weekends, holidays, staff in-service, and final examinations. 
Other  academic  years  reviewed  (i.e.  2013-2014  and  2014-2015)  included  a 
semester with 76 full days of instruction. College of DuPage has built in multiple 
days throughout the semester in the event classes are to be made up after a school 
day closure or cancellation.    The current academic calendar and policies conform 
to ICCB Administrative Rules, Section 1501.303.  
 
Compliance Recommendation: None. 
 
College response:  
 
11a-e. Program Review 
After  reviewing College of DuPage’s program  review  process  and  submissions 
over the last five  years, all instructional programs have been reviewed utilizing a 
systemic,  college-wide process. The college meets the minimum requirements of 
need,  cost  and  quality  for  evaluating  their  instructional  programs.  The  college 
includes  student  and  academic  support  services  and  administrative  functions  in 

 17 
their annual review cycle. The college has partnered with other learning institutions 
and high schools to develop curriculums for easy transition. College of DuPage has 
utilized  testing  and  data  sources  to  allocate  resources  and  determine  program 
success  that  will  help  them  react  to  enrollment  and  industry  trends. The  college 
maintains  Program  Review  and  General  Education  Assessment  teams  and  sites, 
which are accessible through the employee portal.    This site provides information 
on  past  reports,  as  well  as  valuable  information  and  resources  for  best  practices.   
The  college  also  utilizes  these  teams  to  engage  in  an  annual  review  of  general 
education outcomes to ensure that all programs are aligned with the eight general 
education outcomes.   Systematic improvements based the evaluation over the last 
five years are noted in the self-assessment submitted by the college.  
 
No discrepancies between the college’s program review process and schedule and 
the ICCB five-year program review manual were identified. 
 
Compliance Recommendation: None. 
 
College response:  
 
2. STUDENT SERVICES/ACADEMIC SUPPORT 
  
 1a-d. Student Services/Academic Support.   
  Part A:   Advising and Counseling. 
 
College of DuPage offers a comprehensive set of advising and counseling services.   
Available  services  are  detailed  on  the  college  website  and  in  a  variety  of  printed 
materials.    The college provides services in multiple locations and outside normal 
business  hours  to  meet  the  needs  of  students.    Counselors  complete  training  to 
ensure  effectiveness.    Counseling assists  students  in  developing  their academic, 
career  and  personal goals.  Counselors  work  with  undecided  students  to  guide 
them in career exploration, decision making and educational planning.    The New 
Student Orientation helps students and their families get acclimated to campus life. 
   
Compliance Recommendation: None. 
  
College response:  
 
  Part B:    Financial Aid. 
 
The Office of Student Financial Assistance provides effective financial aid support 
to  students.    The  office  uses  a  number  of  communication  strategies  to  ensure 
students  get  needed  information.    The  office  offers  financial  literacy  training  to 
assist students and parents in decision making in collaboration with the Office of 
Admissions  &  Outreach.   The office  also  collaborates with  DuPage  County 
agencies to  provide information  sessions for teen/parent  groups, rehabilitation 

 18 
centers, and low income programs.  The college offers a “Life Happens!” capstone 
program to help students understand financial information through various stages 
of life.    The  college offers information on the Federal Work Study Program and 
various scholarship opportunities.  
 
Compliance Recommendation: None. 
 
College response:  
 
  Part C:    Placement. 
 
Career  Services  acts  as  a  link  between  job  seeking  students  and  alumni  and  the 
business  community.  Career  Services  provides  a  variety  of  resources  to  help 
individuals  develop  short  and  long-term  career  goals.    The  department  provides 
training  and  assistance  in  completing  applications,  developing  resumes,  and 
preparing for interviews.    The department provides assistance with internship and 
job search strategies.    It also helps  employers with recruiting  efforts through the 
Chaps Get Hired online tool, classroom visits, and career fairs. 
 
Compliance Recommendation: None. 
 
College response:    
 
Part D:    Support Services. 
 
The  college  offers  a  variety  of  services  including  tutoring,  testing,  disabilities 
services,  and  veterans’  services.    A  Veterans  Lounge  is  available  for  veteran 
students.    The  college  developed  the  Mission  to  Succeed  Seminar  to  facilitate 
academic  success for  veterans.   A  Future Service  Member  Education  Day  was 
developed  to  aid  high  school  students  in  understanding  how  to attain  a  college 
education  while serving in  the Armed Forces.    The Bridges  to Employment 
program brings together business and public sector leaders to discuss the strengths 
veterans bring to their future careers.   
 
The  college’s  Access  and  Accommodation  Center  provides  a  wide  range  of 
assistance  for  persons  with  disabilities.    Center  staff  participates  in  college 
outreach  events  to  discuss  available  services  to  potential  incoming  students  with 
accommodation needs.    The center conducts disability awareness workshops and 
offers  a  Living  Leadership  program  to  educate  student  leaders  on  campus.    The 
center  coordinates  with  the  Teaching  and  Learning  Center  to  offer  faculty 
workshops  on  best  practices  and  reasonable  accommodations  for  students  with 
disabilities. 
 
The  college  has  developed  specific  outreach  programs  to  extend  diversity  on 
campus and recruitment of persons of color.    The Latino Outreach Center and The 

 19 
Center for Student Diversity and Inclusion coordinate to engage underrepresented 
populations,  grow  enrollments,  and  foster  student  success.    College  and  career 
readiness  fairs,  mentoring  programs,  and  calling  campaigns  are  utilized  to  assist 
students with awareness, readiness, and enrollment. 
 
Compliance Recommendation: None. 
 
College response:    
  
3. FINANCE/FACILITIES 
 
 1. Credit Hour Claim Verification 
ICCB staff conducted a day and a half visit at the college in early December 2016.     
During  this  visit  ICCB  staff  reviewed  a  sample  of  credit  hours  reported  and 
certified  by  the  college  CFO  and  CEO  in  the  Semester  Unrestricted  (SU)  and 
Semester  Restricted  (SR)  instructional  credit  hour  submissions.    The  credit  hour 
certifications  are  used  by  the  ICCB  annually  to  determine  system  funding 
calculations and college allocations.  
 
Approximately 150 course sections from the summer 2014, fall 2014, and spring 
2015 semesters were  selected.  Midterm   class  lists,  final  grade  sheets,  and 
transcripts  were  reviewed.  The  ICCB  uses  this  information  to  support  student 
residency  status  and  final  grade  postings.  Staff  is  checking  for  supporting 
documentation for the college’s classification between the SU and SR records, and 
supporting  documentation  for  chargeback  and  cooperative  agreement  claims. 
College  processes  to  determine  student  residency,  verification  of  residency,  and 
course repeating were evaluated.  
 
Midterm Certification System 
For the recognition period tested, college credit hour submissions to ICCB were in 
a made  timely manner.   The  college  has  an  electronic  signature  process  for 
midterm  certifications  by  the  instructors.  Information  necessary  for  the  efficient 
and  effective  evaluation  of  the  claims  process  was  provided  on  the  electronic 
midterms  reviewed  during  the  visit. All  instructors  (within  the  sample)  for  SU 
courses were funded with more than 50 percent unrestricted funds and submitted 
accurately with the exception of two. It was identified that Fire 2276 did not meet 
110  ILCS  805/2-16.02 and  were  not  eligible  for  reimbursement.  In  order  to  be 
eligible for reimbursement the district must pay 50% or more of the program costs. 
Collecting tuition/fees and then passing through those funds to a contracted entity 
that teaches the course may be allowable for earning non-reimbursable credit hours 
but not reimbursable credit hours.    
  
Compliance  Recommendation: In  order  to  be  in  compliance  with  ICCB 
Administrative Rule 110 ILCS 805/2-16.02, College of DuPage must: 
 

 20 
1) evaluate any other class offerings, in addition to Fire 2276, and determine 
which offerings do not meet statutory requirements and 
2) modify   policies   and   procedures   to   ensure   only   eligible   classes   are 
submitted on the ICCB credit hour claim submission in the future.    
 
College response: We agree that the college did not pay more than 50% of the cost 
of  delivering  Fire  2276  to  outside  entities:    hospitals.    While  the  delivery  of  the 
course  was  overseen  by  college  staff  employees,  the  majority  of  the  cost  of  the 
course  was indeed  received  in  tuition  and  fees  and,  in  turn,  paid  to  partnering 
hospitals. 
 
110  ILCS  805/2-16.02 states, “Courses that are eligible for reimbursement are 
those courses for which the district pays 50% or more of the program costs from 
unrestricted revenue sources.”  The costs of delivering Fire 2276 were paid with 
unrestricted  revenue  sources  (as  the  term  “unrestricted  revenue  sources”  is 
defined in the law).    However, we note that the state law does not define the term 
“program cost.”  We believe that the ICCB’s interpretation of the term “program 
cost” is reasonable in the assessment of Fire 2276.  Consequently, the college will 
not  seek  reimbursement  for  costs  associated  with  Fire  2276  in  the  future.   
However,  we  note  that  other  costs  associated  with a course’s delivery could be 
construed  as  program  costs.    For  example,  the  costs  of  services  provided  by 
college administrators and support staff that are connected with the delivery of a 
course could be considered program costs.    Consequently, we recommend that the 
ICCB promulgate a regulation to clearly define the term “program cost” so as to 
reduce the potential for misunderstanding. 
 
Student Residency 
Based  on  the  review  of  residency  records, College  of  DuPage properly  makes  a 
distinction between the residency classification for tuition purposes and residency 
classification  for  state  funding  purposes.  The  college  uses  a  list  of  all  in  district 
cities/towns to verify  residency. Students who reside in cross border cities/towns 
are asked to bring in tax documentation to verify residency. The college published 
the Certificate of Chargeback Reimbursement in the college’s annual audit, and it 
was submitted in a timely and accurate manner. 
 
Compliance Recommendation: None. 
 
College response:  
 
Course Repeats 
The selected sample of course sections was reviewed to determine the college’s 
compliance with repeatability rules. The college’s repeat check process is partially 
automated using programming logic and appears to be working as it should.  
 
Compliance Recommendation: None. 

 21 
 
College response:  
  
2. Financial Planning 
College of DuPage indicated they involve budget officers and departments in the 
annual budget development process, which includes a five year financial plan. The 
college  also  incorporates  capital needs  and  strategic  planning initiatives into  the 
planning and budgeting process. The budget process, strategic planning efforts, and 
capital needs analysis done by the college uses feedback from various constituent 
groups, which includes various departments throughout the college, faculty, staff, 
students,  and  the  Board.   The  Board  receives  quarterly  financial  and  tracking 
reports. 
 
  Revenues, expenditures, and operating fund balances for 2011 through 2015 were 
examined.  On  average,  the  college  receives eight percent  of  its  revenues  from 
ICCB grants compared to 16 percent on a statewide basis. Student tuition and local 
property  taxes  provide  45 percent  and 47 percent,  respectively,  compared  to 40 
percent  and  42  percent  statewide.  The  five-year  average  of salaries  and  benefits 
represents 76 percent  of  college  expenditures,  which  is  consistent  with  the 
statewide percentage.   Operating   fund   balances   (education,   operations   and 
maintenance funds) averaged $131.4 million over the last five years compared to 
the statewide average of $17.8 million. The college’s fund balances are above the 
statewide average and increased 118 percent during the five-year period reviewed.   
Statewide, the growth in fund balances during the same time period was less than 
one percent.  The  college’s increase occurred in both the Education Fund and 
Operations and Maintenance Fund.  
 
  The college’s operating fund balance to expenditures ratio over the five years in 
review are 87.4 percent. The statewide ratio is 40 percent. This ratio represents the 
amount  of  fund  balance  in  reserve  to  pay  operating  expenditures.  A  higher  ratio 
reflects  more  funds  in  reserve.  A  lower  ratio  reflects  fewer  funds  in  reserve. 
Another ratio used to determine financial stability is the college’s fund balance to 
revenue.    Over  the  five  years  in  review,  the  colleges  ratio  was 75 percent 
compared to the statewide ratio of 37 percent. The higher the ratio the more fund 
balance available to compensate for revenue reductions. The college’s expenditures 
to revenue ratio over the five years were .86 percent compared to the statewide ratio 
of  .93  percent.  Ratios  over  one  indicate  expenditures  in  excess  of  revenues  and 
more  of  a  reliance  on  fund  balance  whereas  a  ratio  of  less  than  one  indicates 
revenues  in  excess  of  expenditures  and  less  of  a  reliance on  fund  balance.  The 
college’s fund balance to expenditures ratio trended at a 112 percent increase since 
the last recognition evaluation in 2012, while the statewide ratio increase was five 
percent. The college’s fund balance to revenue ratio increased 105 percent, while 
the  statewide  ratio  increased  30  percent.    The  expenditure  to  revenue  ratio trend 
for  the  college an  eight  percent  decrease and  statewide  trends decreased  by  one 
percent.  

 22 
 
Compliance Recommendation: None. 
 
College response:  
 
 3. Financial Compliance   
  Part A:    Annual External Audit. 
The annual external audits for fiscal years 2011 through 2015 were reviewed. They 
were submitted to the ICCB timely with all of the required information.  
 
Compliance Recommendation: None. 
 
College response:  
 
 4a-c. Facilities   
  Part A:    Approval of Construction Projects. 
  P.A 99-0655 eliminates the requirement for prior ICCB approval of locally funded 
construction and remodeling projects.  ICCB Rule 1501.602 “Approval of Capital 
Projects” is being eliminated through the JCAR rules process.  
 
ICCB  rules  require  the  college  to  complete  statements  of  final  costs  on  each 
approved project (regardless of funding source) and will continue to collect these 
statements on projects previously approved by the ICCB.    There have been seven 
projects  reported  as  completed  since  fiscal  year  2013 and  a statement  of  final 
cost/completion has been  submitted  for all of  the seven projects. The  ICCB 
Administrative  Rule  1501.605 requires  the  college  to  seek  ICCB  approval  of  a 
revised  budget  if  the  project  completion  costs  will  exceed  the  original  approved 
budget  by  five  percent  or  more.  Project  completion  costs  could  change  if  bids 
received are higher than originally estimated on change orders for projects that are 
made subsequent to awarding contracts.  
 
Of  the seven statements  of  final  cost/completion  submitted  to  ICCB, no projects 
exceeded  the  approved  budget.     This  indicates  the  college  has  good  controls  in 
place  to  monitor  project  costs.  Also,  this  demonstrates  the  understanding  of  the 
ICCB  approval  rules  by  the  college.   The  college  did  report  that  during  their 
review they found two projects (the Addison Cosmetology remodeling project and 
the  Naperville  Renovation  project)  that  should  have  been  submitted  to  ICCB  for 
approval   but   were   not   due   to   oversight   or   misunderstanding   about   ICCB 
requirements.    With    these    exceptions,    the    college    has    demonstrated an 
understanding and ability  to seek  ICCB approval for projects in accordance with 
rules in place during this time.        
 
ICCB  Rule  1501.602c  requires  an  updated  Facilities  Master  Plan  (FMP)  be  filed 
with the ICCB every five years on the year that the college undergoes a recognition 
visit. It should be updated when a project is completed or added to the plan. The 

 23 
FMP should  be  updated  when  a  project  is  completed  or  added  to  the  plan. The 
district submitted their 2016 FMP with their self-study.    
  
Compliance Recommendation: None.  
 
College response:  
   
  Part B:    Protection, Health, or Safety Projects. 
P.A 99-0655 eliminates the requirement for prior ICCB approval of locally funded 
Protection,  Health  and  Safety  (PHS) projects.   ICCB Rule 1501.608j “...prior 
approval of the ICCB...” is being eliminated through the JCAR rules process. In 
order   for College   of DuPage to   remain   in   compliance   with   110   ILCS 
805/3-20.3.01,  the  college  must  continue  to  maintain  accountability  of  the  PHS 
funds  and  the  nature  of  work  done  at  the  local  level  (fund  3  restricted  fund 
accounting of those levy dollars). 
 
Compliance Recommendation: None. 
 
College response:  
 
Part C:    Facilities Data Submissions. 
Facility Data Records (ICCB F3, F6, B3, R3 records) 
Based on ICCB staff review of the facilities data submissions, the fiscal year 2012 
through FY2016 submissions  were  generally not made  in  a  timely  or  accurate 
manner.  During ICCB’s review of the F3, F6, B3, & R3 records submitted, it was 
noted  that  the  college  struggled  to  maintain  accurate  and  timely  reporting.   The 
FY2016 data was submitted before the due date and from ICCB’s initial  review 
appears  to  be  more  accurate  than  previous  submissions.    FY2015  was  submitted 
200 days past the submission deadline and FY2013 was submitted 300 days past 
the deadline.   The FY2014 data was found to never be submitted, which caused the 
ICCB to use the prior year’s data as a proxy to publish in the annual ICCB Data and 
Characteristics Manual for that fiscal  year.    Numerous errors have also appeared 
on  the  June  30
th
 edit  reports  due  to  the  college  modifying  data  to  reflect  new 
construction and remodeling.  Since College of DuPage’s 2012 Recognition visit, 
the college appears to be making improvement in their reporting, which is signaled 
by the steps taken by the college to correct their June 30
th
 report.  
 
ICCB staff has provided technical assistance when requested by the college.    The 
technical  assistance  provided  help  with  identifying  and  proposing  solutions  for 
correcting errors on the edited reports.    College staff indicated that within the next 
year the college plans to reassign responsibility for the facility data reporting and 
accuracy to the Office of Facilities Planning and Development.  
 
Compliance  Recommendation: In  order  to  be  in  compliance  with  ICCB 
Administrative Rule 1501.510(f), College of DuPage must: 

 24 
 
1) dedicate  appropriate  time  and  resources  to  ensure  staff  familiarity 
with facility data reporting requirements,  
2) ensure appropriate  collaboration  between  college  departments  for 
gathering,  providing  and  submitting  the  facilities  data  to  the  ICCB 
annually,  
3) review the ICCB generated reports for accuracy, and  
4) compare changes in data from year to year for reasonableness before 
submitting the data file to the ICCB. 
 
College response: In the past, the Office of Research and Analytics was responsible 
for maintaining and submitting the Facilities data (F3, F6, B3, R3) submissions. 
After reviewing and analyzing the process, it was determined that a more effective 
and efficient process would be for the Office of Facilities Planning and 
Development to manage this process and submit the data directly to ICCB. 
 
Therefore, in the months following the submission of the COD Recognition 
Self-Study, the Office of Research and Analytics will transition the responsibility 
for tracking, reconciling and submitting Facilities data (F3, F6, B3, R3) to the 
Office of Facilities Planning and Development.  
 
As a part of this transition, the Office of Facilities Planning and Development will 
implement a regular cycle for inventorying all College-owned buildings and space 
leased by the College.    The Office of Facilities Planning and Development will 
also validate room use, suitability, square footage data on file and building total 
square footage.    
 
In order to ensure compliance, the Office of Facilities Planning and Development 
will maintain a check list of the required ICCB data submissions for Facilities data 
(F3, F6, B3, R3) together with their respective due dates, and regularly reviews 
facilities information in order to maintain accuracy of the information submitted. 
 
Square footage of planned construction and owned land 
The  fiscal  year  2012  through  2016  submissions  were  reviewed. For  the  period 
reviewed,  the  only  significant  reported  change  in  owned  acreage  was  in FY2013 
reports (7/1/12), which showed a reduction of nearly 36 acres. College staff stated 
that  this  was  a  correction  for  previously  reported,  incorrect  data,  which  was 
discovered  when  the college  had  the  land  surveyed.   The  allocation  of  owned 
acreage  did  change  in  three  other  years, but  the  changes correlate  to projects 
resulting in changes in use of existing acreage (new construction and demolition of 
old  buildings). Even  though shifts  between  the  classifications  of  total  owned 
acreage may occur due to ongoing construction, the total owned acreage should not 
change  unless  new  property  is  acquired  or  existing  property  is  sold.    During  the 
five year period, the college did periodically report estimates of new gross square 
footage  planned  or  under  construction  which  seemed to  have  a  correlation  to 

 25 
specific  projects  approved  by  the  ICCB  such  as,  more  recently,  the  Homeland 
Security Training Center.      
 
Compliance Recommendation: None. 
 
College response:  
 
Project status reports 
The fiscal year 2012 to 2016 submissions were reviewed.    This report is submitted 
each year to show the relative progress toward completion on each ICCB approved 
project.    The reports were submitted in a timely and accurate manner.  
 
Compliance Recommendation: None. 
 
College response:  
 
Resource Allocation Management Plan (RAMP) 
The  submissions  due  in  fiscal  years  2013 through  2017 were  reviewed.    For  the 
period examined, the college has submitted their state funded RAMP submissions 
in a timely and accurate manner.  
 
Compliance Recommendation: None. 
 
College response:  
 
Course Resource Data (ICCB S6/S7 Reports) 
The fiscal year 2011 through 2015 submissions were reviewed. All years reviewed 
were submitted on the due dates.   The S6/S7 data are used in conjunction with the 
facility data (F3, F6, B3, & R3 records) to calculate room utilization as reflected in 
the C14 report. Facility, building, and room identifiers used in the S6/S7 reporting 
should be the same as those used in the facilities data (F3, F6, B3, & R3) reporting. 
The  C14 report  (Utilization  for  Classroom  Facilities  and  Laboratory  Facilities) 
does reflect utilization rates for the  years reviewed. This is an indication that the 
location codes used in the S6 and S7 data do match the facility, building, and room 
identifier codes used in the facilities data reported (F3, F6, B3, & R3 records).  
 
Data records are submitted for approximately 2,200 classrooms and labs each fall 
in  the  S6  submission.    This  number  should  correspond  to  the  number  of  SU/SR 
records in the fall that use classroom space.   The number should correspond to the 
number  of  SU/SR  records  in  the  fall  that  use  classroom  space;  however,  this 
number did not correspond to the number of SU/SR records, which are usually over 
4,000  records.   When  this  occurs  the  number  of  SU/SR  records  exceeds  the 
number of S6 records.   This may be an indication that the college does not submit 
an  S6  for  certain  course  sections  listed  on  the  fall  SU/SR  claim.    The  college 
should submit a corresponding S6 record for every fall SU/SR record that requires 

 26 
seat space. Online classes taken by students at home do not require an S6 record.             
 
Compliance Recommendation: None.  
 
Advisory  Quality Recommendation: It  is recommended  that the  college 
review  the  discrepancy  in  record  counts  between  the  fall  SU/SR  credit  hour 
claim submission and the S6/S7 data submitted to ensure a corresponding S6 
record is submitted for each SU/SR course section that requires seat space.      
 
College response: The College’s Office of Research and Analytics will compare 
recent instances of the S6/S7 report to the matching SU/SR reports, to identify 
sections omitted from the report and verify that those omissions conform to the 
report specifications in the ICCB MIS Manual.  Where they do not, the Research 
office will work with the College’s IT staff to modify the S6/S7 extract report. 
 
4. INSTITUTIONAL RESEARCH/REPORTING 
 
 1a-c. General Reporting Requirements. 
  (Focused finance items are covered in Section 4a Part C.)      The latest five years of 
Illinois Community College Board (ICCB) data submissions by College of DuPage 
were  reviewed - generally  this  includes  fiscal  years  2012-2016 unless  otherwise 
stated.  Submissions  were  evaluated  on  consistency,  accuracy,  completeness,  and 
timeliness.   Timeliness is based on the date on which a submission is finalized, not 
the  date  the  original  submission  is  received.      A  detailed  analysis  of  individual 
data submissions is in Appendix A. 
 
  ICCB data timeliness and accuracy are becoming increasingly important as these 
submissions  are  used  extensively  by  ICCB  staff  to  fulfill  external  reporting 
requirements on behalf of the colleges.    As a value added service to the colleges 
ICCB staff reconfigure and combine information collected through routine ICCB 
submissions into a format that meets the needs of external entities.      This approach 
minimizes  duplicate  reporting  and  serves  to  further  strengthen  data  submission 
quality  and  comprehensiveness.    For  example,  ICCB  uses  information  from 
college   submissions   to   provide   multiple   federal   Integrated   Postsecondary 
Education  Data  System  (IPEDS)  reports.    It  is  particularly  important  to  meet 
federal IPEDS collection deadlines because federal officials have the authority to 
fine colleges for failure to furnish timely data.      The potential for IPEDS federal 
fines  totals  $385,000  per  institution  in  the  event  that  Fall,  Winter  and  Spring 
submissions are not locked by colleges by their respective due dates.      ICCB data 
also  are  used  in  federal  Perkins  Postsecondary  and  Adult  Education  and  Family 
Literacy  (WIA  Title  II)  performance  reporting.    Failure  to  meet  these  federal 
reporting  deadlines  could  delay  the  availability  of  funds  and  would  remove  the 
state from eligibility for incentive dollars. 
 
College  of  DuPage staff  has been  successful  in  meeting  federal  submission  time 

 27 
lines over the past five fiscal years.    Over the last five years, College of DuPage 
officials  have  met  ICCB  deadlines  for  most  submissions. Overall, the college’s 
final  data  submissions  have  been  accurate  and  complete.  An  Appendix  Table 
contains additional details on actual submission dates. 
 
Part A.   Student Data Reporting.    
The Annual  Enrollment  and  Completion  Data  (A1) submission  is  the  most 
complex and lengthy of the state data submissions.    Accuracy of final submissions 
has been very good over the timeframe of the study.    Final A1 submissions have 
not  contained  any  critical  errors in all  of  the five  years  reviewed.   College  of 
DuPage A1  submission did  not  contain  any  critical  errors in all  of  the  five  years 
reported.   College of DuPage’s final A1 submission met the deadline in one of the 
last five years reported; the FY2016 submission was finalized one month late, the 
FY2015  submission  was  ten  weeks  late,  the  FY2014  submission  was  five  weeks 
late,  and  the  FY2013  submission  was  finalized  nearly  two  months  past  the 
reporting deadline.   The submissions took between two and seven submissions to 
finalize.   Coverage of Degree  Objective was excellent over the timeframe of the 
study with no unknown records for this variable in five of the five years reviewed. 
About one-fourth of records are unknown for Entry Intent and Current Intent. The 
proportion  of  unknown Entry  Intent  and Current  Intent  has  been  increasing  each 
year over the last five  years from  about twenty-five percent in FY2012 to nearly 
thirty percent in FY2016.  
 
Coverage  of  Entry Intent  and  Current  Intent  is  an  area  for  further  improvement.   
The  proportion  of  unknown Highest  Degree  Previously  Earned  has  also  been 
increasing each year over the last five years from about seven percent in FY2012 to 
nearly 20 percent  in  FY2016.  Consistency  between  the  Annual  Enrollment  and 
Completion submission and the Annual Student  Identification  (ID) submission 
was excellent during each of the past five fiscal years.    There were no headcount 
discrepancies.    Annual  Student  Identification  (ID)  data  have  also  been  finalized 
prior  to  the  reporting  deadline  in  one  of five  fiscal  years  reviewed;  the  FY2016 
submission was finalized nearly two months late, the FY2015 submission was half 
a  month  late,  the  FY2014  submission  was  eight  days  late,  and  the  FY2013 
submission was finalized nearly one month past the reporting deadline. 
       
The Annual Completions (A2) data submission began in fiscal year 2013.  ICCB 
allows   two   years   of   data   collection   for   new   Research   and   Policy   Studies 
submissions prior to being reviewed for Recognition.    College of DuPage met the 
reporting deadline in one of the two  years reviewed. The number of submissions 
needed  to  finalize  the  data  ranged  from  three  to  four,  and  there  were  no  critical 
errors  in  the  final  submissions.  Coverage  of  Race/Ethnicity  has  been  very  good 
with less than three percent of records with unknown Race/Ethnicity in the latest 
submission. There were more completions on the A2 than on the A1 submission. 
The A2 submission collects the same completions as the A1 submission, which is 
limited to three completions, but the A2 allows for more than three completions to 

 28 
be reported. 
 
The Annual Students with Disabilities (SD) data submission began in fiscal year 
2009.  College  of  DuPage  has  met  the  reporting  deadline  in  one  of  the  five  years 
reviewed; the FY2016, FY2015, FY2014, and FY2013 submissions were finalized 
between one and 38 days past the reporting deadline. The number of submissions 
needed  to  finalize  the  data  ranged  from  one  to  two  during  the  five  fiscal  years 
reviewed and there were no critical errors in the final submissions. 
 
The Fall Enrollment (E1) data submission’s timeliness has not met the reporting 
deadline in any of the past five years; the FY2016 submission was finalized about 
six  weeks  late,  the  FY2015  submission  was  about  five  months  late,  the  FY2014 
submission  was  five  weeks  late,  and  the  FY2013 and  FY2012  submissions  were 
finalized  eleven  days past  the  reporting  deadline.    The  number  of  submissions 
needed to finalize the data ranged from three to six during the five years reviewed.     
There  were  no  critical  errors  in  five  of  the  five  years  reviewed.   The Fall 
Enrollment  Survey has  been  finalized  after  the  reporting  deadline  in  two  of  the 
last  five  fiscal  years.    There  has  been  consistency  between  the  Fall  Enrollment 
Survey and the E1 submission in each of the five years reviewed. 
 
Noncredit  Course  Enrollment  (N1) data  collection  began  in  fiscal  year  2000.   
College of DuPage data submissions met the reporting deadline in one of the last 
five fiscal years; the FY2016 submission was finalized five days late, the FY2014 
submission  was  ten  days  late,  the  FY2013  submission  was  three  and  one-half 
weeks  late  and  the  FY2012  submission  was  finalized  nearly  one  week  past  the 
reporting deadline.  The final submissions had no critical errors in any of the five 
years  reviewed.  Coverage  of  Age  has  been  excellent  in  the  five  years  reviewed 
with  fewer  than  three  percent  of  records  having  unknown  age. Coverage  of 
race/ethnicity  is  an  area  of  further  improvement as race/ethnicity  is  unknown  in 
about one-half of the records in each of the last five years reviewed. The proportion 
of unknown Highest Degree Previously Earned variable has been increasing each 
year from FY2012 and reached forty-four percent in FY2016. 
 
The Annual  Course  (AC) data  submission  began  in  fiscal  year  2011.    ICCB 
allows   two   years   of   data collection   for   new   Research   and   Policy   Studies 
submissions prior to being reviewed for Recognition.    College of DuPage has met 
the reporting deadline in two of the four years reviewed; the FY2016 and FY2015 
submissions were finalized eight and seven days late, respectively. The number of 
submissions needed to finalize the data ranged from one to three, and there were no 
critical errors in the final submissions.    The Annual Course (AC) data submission 
helps  to  address  the  requirements  of  the  Dual  Credit  Quality  Act  (Public  Act 
096-0194) and supports  the production of some  measures  contained in Complete 
College America (CCA) by collecting information on dual credit and remedial and 
gatekeeper Math and English courses. 
 

 29 
IPEDS Summer  Graduate Reporting data collection began in fiscal year 2000.   
The final submission met the reporting deadline in three of the past five fiscal years, 
finalizing  half  a  month  late  in  FY2016  and  ten  days  late  in  FY2015. Summer 
Graduate Reporting for the IPEDS Graduation Rate Survey (GRS) provides 
colleges  with  an  opportunity  to  raise  their  graduation  rates  by  including  those 
students who complete programs one summer beyond the end of the fiscal year in 
rate calculations. 
    
The Winter  Quarter/Spring  Semester  Term  Enrollment  Survey has been 
submitted on time for each of the past five fiscal years. 
   
The final Career  and  Technical  Education  Follow-up Study  (FS) submissions 
met the reporting deadline in three of the last five fiscal years, finalizing two days 
late  in  FY2015  and  one  month and  half  late  in  FY2014.    There  were  no  critical 
errors in two of the five submissions reviewed.    The response rate met the ICCB 
minimum standard in four of the five submissions reviewed: 2015 (50.41 percent), 
2014 (51.47 percent), 2013 (57.30 percent), and 2012 (50.09 percent).  
  
Part B.    Faculty/Staff Data Submissions.    
The Faculty, Staff and Salary (C1) electronic data submission met the reporting 
deadline in two of the past five fiscal years; the FY2014 submission was finalized 
about two weeks late and the FY2013 and FY2012 submissions were finalized two 
days past the reporting deadline.    The number of submissions required to finalize 
these  data  ranged  from  two  to  five.    The Faculty,  Staff  and  Salary  (C2) 
electronic data submission met the reporting deadline in none of the past five fiscal 
years; the submissions were finalized between seven and thirty-five days past the 
reporting   deadline.   Data   items   in  these   submissions   are   very   important   in 
generating the annual “Salary Report for Illinois Community Colleges” and related 
Illinois Board of Higher Education and federal (IPEDS) reports. 
   
The Faculty,   Staff   and   Salary   Supplementary   Information survey   data 
submissions were finalized prior to the reporting deadline in four of the past five 
fiscal  years;  the  FY2012  submission  was  finalized  one  day  past  the  reporting 
deadline.  
 
The Annual Faculty, Staff and Salary (C3) data submission began in fiscal year 
2010.    ICCB  allows  two  years  of  data  collection  for  new  Research  and  Policy 
Studies submissions prior to being reviewed for Recognition.    College of DuPage 
met  the  submission  deadline  in  none  of  the  past  four years  reviewed;  the 
submissions  were  finalized  between  two  and  four  weeks  past  the  reporting 
deadline.    The number of submissions needed to finalize the data ranged from four 
to  thirteen.    The Annual  Faculty,  Staff,  and  Salary  (C3) submission  provides 
ICCB with data for compliance with Public Act 096-0266 which impacts 110 ILCS 
805/3-29.4. 
 

 30 
The African   American   Employment   Plan   Survey, Bilingual   Needs   and 
Bilingual  Pay  Survey,  and Hispanic  Employment  Plan  Survey submissions 
began  in  fiscal  year  2011  and  the Asian  American  Employment  Plan  Survey 
submission in fiscal year 2013.    ICCB allows two years of data collection for new 
Research and Policy Studies submissions prior to being reviewed for Recognition.   
College of DuPage met the reporting deadline in the years reviewed for three of the 
four surveys; the Bilingual Needs and  Bilingual Pay Survey was finalized  nearly 
one month late in FY2013.The Employment Plan surveys provide ICCB with data 
for compliance with Public Acts 096-1341, 096-1286, and 097-0856. 
 
Part C:    Other Submissions. 
The Underrepresented Groups Report was submitted on time in five of the past 
five  fiscal  years.    This  report  is  becoming  more  important  as  national  and  state 
attention  is  being  increasingly  focused  on  improving  the  depth  and  breadth  of 
services provided to members of underrepresented groups. 
 
Advisory  Quality Recommendation:  Most data  submissions  have  been 
timely,  accurate,  and  complete.    The  ICCB  appreciates  this  and  looks 
forward  to  continued  timely,  accurate,  and  complete  data  submissions  from 
College   of   DuPage.   Focused   efforts   are   recommended   to   improve   the 
timeliness of several submissions, including the Noncredit Course Enrollment 
Data  (N1), Annual  Enrollment  and  Completion  Data  (A1), Annual  Student 
Identification (ID), Fall Term Enrollment Data (E1), and Annual Faculty Staff 
& Salary Data (C3).  
 
College response: The College will continue its efforts to improve the timeliness of 
data reporting.      
 
The College’s Office of Research & Analytics (ORA) will make an effort to cross 
train additional staff in the ICCB student data submissions procedures.  
 
The College will investigate if the Colleague student information system can be 
modified to eliminate missing/inaccurate student information.  
 
To make sure that our system keeps up with the changes in the MIS manual, we 
have a process to flow tickets to Information Technology for system updates so that 
the system will output the most accurate data possible.  
 
We run validation data in the form of error testing report that gets circulated for 
correction internally. Most of our data comes from the crystal reporting system 
maintained by Information Technology. The ORA has a communication channel 
directly with the programmers who can quickly react to changes necessary. Human 
Resource reporting staff has documented the procedures to generate a series of 
compliance reports and maintained the documentation over time. The HR manager 
is well aware of the peak time of reporting and coordinated proactively to allow 

 31 
report staff more time on the reporting.    
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 32 
College of DuPage (502) - Recognition Policy Studies Report Due Dates 
 
Noncredit Course Enrollment Data (N1) 
Fiscal Year Collected 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 
Fiscal Year of Data 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 
Final Submission –  (07/15)*  07/20/15 07/14/14 07/25/13 08/20/12 07/21/11 
# Submissions to Final  2 2 2 3 2 
Timeliness 5 days late on time 
10 days 
late 
24 days 
late 
6 days late 
Duplicated Head Count 9993 9329 10604 10298 9334 
Unduplicated Head Count 7431 7052 7392 7194 6507 
# Error Codes in Final Submission 2 2 2 2 4 
# Critical Errors in Final Submission 0 0 0 0 0 
% Records with Errors in Final Sub. 
0.93 
percent 
0.22 
percent 
0.22 
percent 
2.35 
percent 
42.53 
percent 
% Unknown Age in Final Submission no 
value or . 
0.68 
percent 
0.04 
percent 
0.03 
percent 
0.00 
percent 
0.00 
percent 
% Unknown Age in Final Submission 
unknown 
0.00 
percent 
0.00 
percent 
0.00 
percent 
2.21 
percent 
1.53 
percent 
% Unknown Ethnicity** in Final 
no value or . 
0.00 
percent 
0.00 
percent 
0.00 
percent 
0.00 
percent 
0.00 
percent 
% Unknown Ethnicity** in Final  
unknown 
55.22 
percent 
56.74 
percent 
58.92 
percent 
52.15 
percent 
43.33 
percent 
% Unknown Highest Degree in Final 
no value or . 
0.00 
percent 
0.00 
percent 
0.00 
percent 
0.00 
percent 
0.00 
percent 
% Unknown Highest Degree in Final 
unknown 
43.54 
percent 
43.53 
percent 
32.73 
percent 
10.30 
percent 
10.03 
percent 
  *Due 07/27 in FY13 
**From Item 30 starting in the FY13 (FY12 data) collection; from Item 9 in prior years. 
 
Annual Enrollment & Completion Data (A1) 
Fiscal Year Collected 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 
Fiscal Year of Data 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 
Final Submission – (08/01)* 09/02/15 10/10/14 09/05/13 09/26/12 08/02/11 
# Submissions to Final  4 7 5 6 2 

 33 
Timeliness 
30 days 
late 
70 days 
late 
35 days 
late 
56 days 
late 
on time 
Head Count (total incl. 0 hrs enroll.) 47860 47256 47248 46517 48155 
Discrepancy between A1 & ID 0 0 0 0 0 
# Error Codes in Final Submission 4 5 5 2 6 
# Critical Errors in Final Submission 0 0 0 0 0 
% Records with Errors in Final Sub. 
0.07 
percent 
0.01 
percent 
0.26 
percent 
0.36 
percent 
1.29 
percent 
% 0 Cumulative GPA in Final Sub. 
16.76 
percent 
17.41 
percent 
16.30 
percent 
16.74 
percent 
17.77 
percent 
% 0 Cumulative Hours in Final Sub. 
14.24 
percent 
14.47 
percent 
15.63 
percent 
16.21 
percent 
6.19 
percent 
% Unknown Entry Intent in Final 
no value or . 
0.00 
percent 
0.00 
percent 
0.00 
percent 
0.00 
percent 
0.00 
percent 
% Unknown Entry Intent in Final 
unknown 
29.07 
percent 
27.62 
percent 
26.47 
percent 
25.99 
percent 
25.52 
percent 
% Unknown Current Intent in Final 
no value or . 
0.00 
percent 
0.00 
percent 
0.00 
percent 
0.00 
percent 
0.00 
percent 
% Unknown Current Intent in Final 
unknown 
28.49 
percent 
27.63 
percent 
26.12 
percent 
25.58 
percent 
25.26 
percent 
% Unknown Degree Obj. in Final 
0.00 
percent 
0.00 
percent 
0.00 
percent 
0.00 
percent 
0.00 
percent 
% Unknown Highest Degree in Final 
no value or . 
0.00 
percent 
0.00 
percent 
0.00 
percent 
0.00 
percent 
0.00 
percent 
% Unknown Highest Degree in Final 
unknown 
19.24 
percent 
17.56 
percent 
15.83 
percent 
15.13 
percent 
7.15 
percent 
% Unknown HS Rank in Final Sub. 
100.00 
percent 
100.00 
percent 
100.00 
percent 
100.00 
percent 
100.00 
percent 
*Due 08/03 in FY16; 08/15 in FY12 
 
Annual Completions Data (A2) 
Fiscal Year Collected 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 
Fiscal Year of Data 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 
Final Submission – (09/01)** 09/02/15 08/19/14 N/A* N/A* N/C 
# Submissions to Final  4 3 N/A* N/A* N/C 
Timeliness 1 day late on time N/A* N/A* N/C 

 34 
Record Count (duplicate completions) 7509 6445 N/A* N/A* N/C 
Total Number of Completions  
from A1 
7433 6358 N/A* N/A* N/C 
More Completions on A2 than on A1 or 
Equal Number 
Yes Yes N/A* N/A* N/C 
# Error Codes in Final Submission 1 1 N/A* N/A* N/C 
# Critical Errors in Final Submission 0 0 N/A* N/A* N/C 
% Records with Errors in Final Sub. 
0.01 
percent 
0.02 
percent 
N/A* N/A* N/C 
% Unknown Ethnicity in Final 
no value or . 
0.00 
percent 
0.00 
percent 
N/A* N/A* N/C 
% Unknown Ethnicity in Final 
unknown 
2.49 
percent 
2.61 
percent 
N/A* N/A* N/C 
*ICCB allows two years of collection for new Research and Policy Studies submissions prior to being reviewed for Recognition. 
**Due 09/02 in FY15 
 
Annual Student ID Submission (ID) 
Fiscal Year Collected 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 
Fiscal Year of Data 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 
Final Submission (09/01)* 10/22/15 09/18/14 09/11/13 10/02/12 08/23/11 
# Submissions to Final 2 3 2 3 1 
Timeliness – Data Due 
51 days 
late 
16 days 
late 
8 days late 
28 days 
late 
on time 
Head Count in Final Submission 47860 47256 47248 46517 48155 
Discrepancy between A1 & ID 0 0 0 0 0 
# Error Codes in Final Submission 4 4 4 1 1 
# Critical Errors in Final Submission 0 0 0 0 0 
*Due 09/02 in FY15; 09/03 in FY14; 09/04 in FY13 
 
Annual Students with Disabilities Submission (SD) 
Fiscal Year Collected 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 
Fiscal Year of Data 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 
Final Submission (09/01)* 09/02/15 10/10/14 09/09/13 09/19/12 09/01/11 
# Submissions to Final 2 2 1 2 2 

 35 
Timeliness – Data Due 1 day late 
38 days 
late 
6 days late 
15 days 
late 
on time 
Head Count in Final Submission 1822 1774 1359 1360 1290 
# Error Codes in Final Submission 0 0 0 0 1 
# Critical Errors in Final Submission 0 0 0 0 0 
% Records with Errors in Final Sub. 
0.00 
percent 
0.00 
percent 
0.00 
percent 
0.00 
percent 
0.07 
percent 
*Due 09/02 in FY15; 09/03 in FY14; 09/04 in FY13 
 
Annual Course Data (AC) 
Fiscal Year Collected 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 
Fiscal Year of Data 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 
Final Submission – (09/01)** 09/09/15 11/24/14 11/15/13 11/02/12 N/A* 
# Submissions to Final  2 3 1 1 N/A* 
Timeliness 8 days late 7 days late on time on time N/A* 
# Error Codes in Final Submission 1 1 2 1 N/A* 
# Critical Errors in Final Submission 0 0 0 0 N/A* 
% Records with Errors in Final Sub. 
0.01 
percent 
0.01 
percent 
0.07 
percent 
0.09 
percent 
N/A* 
% Dual Credit in Final 
4.32 
percent 
3.86 
percent 
2.85 
percent 
11.80 
percent 
N/A* 
% Remedial (PCS 14) in Final 
6.16 
percent 
6.55 
percent 
5.83 
percent 
24.48 
percent 
N/A* 
*ICCB allows two years of collection for new Research and Policy Studies submissions prior to being reviewed for Recognition. 
**Due 11/17 in FY15; 11/15 in FY14; 11/15 in FY13 
***Began collecting all credit courses in FY14.  Prior to that only dual credit and math and English courses were collected. 
 
Fall Term Enrollment Data (E1) 
Fiscal Year Collected 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 
Fiscal Year of Data 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 
Final Submission – (10/01)* 11/13/15 03/04/15 11/05/13 10/12/12 10/14/11 
# Submissions to Final  3 4 6 4 5 
Timeliness 
43 days 
late 
154 days 
late 
35 days 
late 
11 days 
late 
11 days 
late 
Head Count in Final Submission 28678 29476 28627 26156 26209 
Discrepancy between E1 & Survey 0 0 0 0 0 

 36 
# Error Codes in Final Submission 5 2 4 4 2 
# Critical Errors in Final Submission 0 0 0 0 0 
% Records with Errors in Final Sub. 
1.55 
percent 
0.67 
percent 
0.39 
percent 
0.30 
percent 
0.37 
percent 
Current Intent Coverage in Final Sub % 
coded as unknown 
24.53 
percent 
24.02 
percent 
21.96 
percent 
17.84 
percent 
38.20 
percent 
Degree Obj. Coverage in Final 
% coded with no code 
0.00 
percent 
0.00 
percent 
0.00 
percent 
0.00 
percent 
0.00 
percent 
Scholarship Coverage in Final Sub. 
% with no scholarship 
100.00 
percent 
100.00 
percent 
100.00 
percent 
100.00 
percent 
100.00 
percent 
*Due 10/03 in FY12 
 
Fall Term Enrollment (Web) Survey 
Fiscal Year Collected 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 
Fiscal Year of Data 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 
Final Submission – (10/01)* 09/16/15 10/03/14 09/18/13 10/03/12 09/14/11 
Timeliness on time 2 days late on time 2 days late on time 
Head Count 28678 29476 28627 26156 26209 
Discrepancy between E1 & Survey 0 0 0 0 0 
*Due 10/03 in FY12 
 
Faculty Staff & Salary Data (C1) 
Fiscal Year Collected 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 
Fiscal Year of Data 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 
Final Submission – (10/15)* 10/14/15 10/02/14 10/30/13 10/17/12 10/19/11 
# Submissions to Final  3 2 5 4 4 
Timeliness on time on time 
15 days 
late 
2 days late 2 days late 
# Error Codes in Final Submission 2 2 3 2 2 
# Critical Errors in Final Submission 2 2 3 2 2 
% Records with Errors in Final Sub. 
13.25 
percent 
12.88 
percent 
12.55 
percent 
14.05 
percent 
14.13 
percent 
% Unknown Employment Class (8) 
0.00 
percent 
0.00 
percent 
0.00 
percent 
0.04 
percent 
0.00 
percent 
*Due 10/17 in FY12 
 
Faculty Staff & Salary Data (C2) 

 37 
Fiscal Year Collected 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 
Fiscal Year of Data 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 
Final Submission – (10/15)* 10/23/15 10/28/14 11/19/13 10/22/12 11/07/11 
# Submissions to Final  4 5 5 8 5 
Timeliness 8 days late 
13 days 
late 
35 days 
late 
7 days late 
21 days 
late 
*Due 10/17 in FY12 
 
Faculty Staff & Salary Supplementary Information  
Fiscal Year Collected 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 
Fiscal Year of Data 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 
Final Submission – (10/15)* 10/13/15 10/14/14 10/15/13 10/15/12 10/18/11 
# Submissions to Final  1 1 1 1 1 
Timeliness on time on time on time on time 1 day late 
*Due 10/17 in FY12 
 
Summer Graduate Reporting for IPEDS GRS 
Fiscal Year Collected 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 
Fiscal Year of Data 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 
Final Submission (11/01)* 11/20/15 11/13/14 11/27/13 12/03/12 11/17/11 
Timeliness 
18 days 
late 
10 days 
late 
on time on time on time 
*Due 11/02 in FY16; 11/03 in FY15; 12/02 in FY14; 12/03 in FY13; 12/01 in FY12 
 
Winter Quarter/Spring Semester Term Enrollment Survey 
Fiscal Year Collected 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 
Fiscal Year of Data 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 
Final Submission (02/15)* 02/11/16 01/29/15 02/06/14 01/28/13 01/31/12 
Timeliness on time on time on time on time on time 
*Due 02/17 in FY15; 02/17 in FY14; 02/10 in FY12 
 
African American Employment Plan Survey 
Fiscal Year Collected 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 
Fiscal Year of Data 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 
Final Submission Varies See Note** 02/04/16 01/30/15 03/05/14 02/18/13 N/A* 

 38 
Timeliness on time on time on time on time N/A* 
*ICCB allows two years of collection for new Research and Policy Studies submissions prior to being reviewed for Recognition. 
**Due: 02/05 in FY16; 02/02 in FY15; 03/05 in FY14; 02/18 in FY13 
 
Asian American Employment Plan Survey 
Fiscal Year Collected 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 
Fiscal Year of Data 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 
Final Submission Varies See Note** 02/04/16 01/30/15 N/A* N/A* N/C 
Timeliness on time on time N/A* N/A* N/C 
*ICCB allows two years of collection for new Research and Policy Studies submissions prior to being reviewed for Recognition. 
**Due: 02/05 in FY16; 02/02 in FY15 
 
Bilingual Needs and Bilingual Pay Survey 
Fiscal Year Collected 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 
Fiscal Year of Data 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 
Final Submission Varies See Note** 02/04/16 01/30/15 03/05/14 03/15/13 N/A* 
Timeliness on time on time on time 
25 days 
late 
N/A* 
*ICCB allows two years of collection for new Research and Policy Studies submissions prior to being reviewed for Recognition. 
**Due: 02/05 in FY16; 02/02 in FY15; 03/05 in FY14; 02/18 in FY13 
 
Hispanic Employment Plan Survey 
Fiscal Year Collected 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 
Fiscal Year of Data 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 
Final Submission Varies See Note** 02/04/16 01/30/15 03/05/14 02/18/13 N/A* 
Timeliness on time on time on time on time N/A* 
*ICCB allows two years of collection for new Research and Policy Studies submissions prior to being reviewed for Recognition. 
**Due: 02/05 in FY16; 02/02 in FY15; 03/05 in FY14; 02/18 in FY13 
 
Underrepresented Groups Report 
Fiscal Year Collected 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 
Fiscal Year of Data 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 
Final Submission Varies See Note* 03/10/16 01/31/15 02/20/14 02/28/13 06/21/12 
Timeliness on time on time on time on time on time 
*Due: 03/11 in FY16; 02/02 in FY15; 02/21 in FY14; 02/28 in FY13; 06/25 in FY12 
 
Occupational Follow-up Study Data (FS) 
Fiscal Year Collected 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 

 39 
Fiscal Year of Data 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 
Final Submission – (5/30)* 06/03/15 07/14/14 06/06/13 05/29/12 05/27/11 
# Submissions to Final  1 2 1 1 2 
Timeliness 2 days late 
45 days 
late 
on time on time on time 
# Error Codes in Final Submission 6 3 6 5 7 
# Critical Errors in Final Submission 2 0 2 0 1 
% Records with Errors in Final Sub. 
6.09 
percent 
4.28 
percent 
3.78 
percent 
7.54 
percent 
4.95 
percent  
Response Rate (PBIS) 
50.41 
percent 
51.47 
percent 
57.30 
percent 
50.09 
percent 
49.06 
percent 
Met Minimum Response Rate** Yes Yes Yes Yes No 
*Due 06/01 in FY15; Adjusted to 6/17 due to ICCB internal technology update in FY13; 05/31 in FY11  
** 50% when N>= 30 & 60% when N<30 
 
Annual Faculty Staff & Salary Data (C3) 
Fiscal Year Collected 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 
Fiscal Year of Data 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 
Final Submission – (6/15)*** 07/13/15 07/10/14 07/01/13 07/11/12 N/A* 
# Submissions to Final  8 4 6 13 N/A* 
Timeliness 
28 days 
late 
24 days 
late 
14 days 
late 
26 days 
late 
N/A* 
# Error Codes in Final Submission 2 1 1 1 N/A* 
# Critical Errors in Final Submission 1 1 1 1 N/A* 
% Records with Errors in Final Sub. 
8.82 
percent 
8.56 
percent 
7.91 
percent 
8.64 
percent 
N/A* 
% Unknown Ethnicity** in Final 
no value or . 
0.00 
percent 
0.00 
percent 
N/A** N/A** N/A* 
% Unknown Ethnicity** in Final  
unknown 
2.55 
percent 
1.83 
percent 
N/A** N/A** N/A* 
*ICCB allows two years of collection for new Research and Policy Studies submissions prior to being reviewed for Recognition. 
**Frequency report developed in FY14.    Only edit report available prior to this and this is not captured on edit report. 
***Due 06/16 in FY14; 06/17 in FY13 
 
 
Note:    N/A = Not Applicable; N/C = Data Not Collected; DNA = Data Not Available 