https://www.cod.edu/student_life/dean-of-students/pdf/student_conduct.pdf


Page 1 of 11 
 
COLLEGE OF DUPAGE Student Affairs -  General 
Administrative Pro ce  dure Manual Procedure No. 20-35 
 
 
 
 
Code of Student Conduct  
The Code of Student Conduct was established to ensure the safety and welfare of the entire 
College of DuPage community; to educate students as to their rights and responsibilities as 
members of the College community; and to facilitate students’ understanding of the balance 
between individual and College rights.  
College of DuPage recognizes the rights of its students guaranteed by the Constitutions of the 
United States and the State of Illinois, which include the rights within the institution to freedom of 
speech, inquiry, assembly, peaceful pursuit of an education, and reasonable use of College 
services and facilities. In addition to their inherent rights and privileges as members of the College 
community, students voluntarily assume the obligation to fulfill the responsibilities of all citizens and 
to bear personal responsibility for their actions. Students agree to adhere to the rules, regulations 
and policies set forth in this Code and to comply with the standards of classroom behavior as 
stated in their individual course syllabi. 
All students at College of DuPage are expected to demonstrate qualities of morality, integrity, 
honesty, civility, tolerance and respect. These values are essential to the learning environment and 
should be exhibited in the conduct of the entire College community, both in and out of the 
classroom setting.  
In the interest of maintaining civility on campus and guaranteeing the broadest range of freedom, 
the Code of Student Conduct reasonably limits some activities and reasonably prohibits certain 
behaviors which interfere with the classroom setting, the normal operation of the College, and the 
pursuit of the College’s goals and core values of Integrity, Honesty, Respect, and Responsibility. 
Jurisdiction of the College 
Disciplinary action may be imposed for conduct which interferes with the normal operational and 
educational process of the College or with the safety and welfare of the College community, 
whether that conduct occurs on College premises, at the Regional Centers, at any off-campus 
instructional sites, either owned, leased or rented, or at off-campus College-sponsored or 
supervised events.  
Whenever possible, sanctions for violations of the Code of Student Conduct will be educational in 
nature. However, threats of violence are considered a serious infringement upon the learning 
environment and must be acted upon accordingly. Code violations that affect the safety and 
welfare of the College community are deemed to be the most serious. Thus, the College reserves 
the right to remove any individual from College premises who is physically or verbally disrupting a 
class or disturbing the peace. Acts of violence, threats or dangerous behavior may result in 
suspension or expulsion from the College.  
Students should be aware that the Code of Student Conduct process is different from criminal and 
civil court proceedings. However, student conduct which involves an alleged violation of criminal 
law will be referred to the College of DuPage Police Department and appropriate civil authorities. 
Civil or criminal charges may occur concurrently with Code of Student Conduct charges. 
 
 

Page 2 of 11 
 
Definitions
 
1.   The term College means College of DuPage. 
2.   The term student,  for  the purposes    of  this  Board Policy,  Administrative  Procedure  and 
Code includes  all  persons  applyi  ng  for  admission or  taking courses  pro vided  by  the 
College,  for  credit  or  non-credit,  full- or  part-t ime  whether  in  a  classroom  setting  or  online  
format.    
3.   The term faculty  member incl  udes  all    persons  who  are full-   or  part-ti me  instructors, 
counselors or librarians.   
4.   The term College official incl  udes  any  person employed by  the  College  performing 
assi  gned administrative or professional staff responsibilit  ies. 
5.   The term member of the College community includes any person who is a student, faculty 
member, College official or any other person employed by the College.  A    person’s status 
in a particu  lar situation will be determined by the Vice President of Student Affairs. 
6.   The term complainant means any person who submits a charge alleging that a student 
violated the Code of Student Conduct. When a student believes that he/she has been a 
victim of another student’s misconduct, the student believing he/she has been a victim will 
have the same rights under this Code as those provided to the complainant, even if another 
member of the College community submitted the charge itself.  
7.   The term accused student means any student accused of violating the Code of Student 
Conduct.  
8.   The  term  College premises includes  all  land,  buildings,  facilities and  other  property  in  the  
possession  of,  owned,  used,  leased  or  rented,  or   controlle  d  by  the  College  (i ncluding 
adjacent streets and sidewalks). 
9.   The term Student  Judicial  Officer means  the Dean of Students or  desi  gnee, authorized 
to conduct  student  judicial  hearings  and  issue  sa  nctions  upon  a  st  udent  who  has  been 
determined to have violated the Code of Student Conduct. 
10.  The term organization means  any  number  of  persons  who have  co  mplied with  the 
formal requirements for College recognition. 
11.  The term formal student judicial hearing means a meeting between the Student Judicial 
Officer and an accused student for the purpose of determining whether a violation of the 
Code of Student Conduct has occurred. 
12.  The Case Resolution Form (CRF) means the form completed by the Dean of Students and 
given to the accused student at the completion of the judicial hearing. The CRF delineates 
the sanction(s) imposed for violation of the Code of Student Conduct. 
13.  The term judici  al  body means   the Dean of Students, the Judicial  Revi  ew Board  or 
any person(s) authorized by the Dean of Students or the Vice Presi  dent of Student Affairs 
to determine whether a student has violated the Code of Student Conduct.  
14.  The term Judici  al   Review   Board refers   to  the appeal   board co  mposed of  College 
faculty,  administrators  and  a  student  who  are  appointed  by  the  Vice  President  of  Student  
Affairs. 
15.  The term appeal hearing means a meeting with the Judicial Review Board 
requested by an accused student for the purpose of appealing the decision or 
sanctions imposed by the Dean of Students. 

Page 3 of 11 
 
16.  The term Behavioral Intervention Team refers to the multi-disciplinary assessment group 
formed to prevent escalation of concerning behaviors on College premises and, when 
necessary, implement interventions that are in the best interest of the individual and the 
College. 
17.  The term will is    used in the imperative sense. 
18.  The term may is used in the permissive sense. 
19.  The term poli   cy is   defined as  the written  regulations  of  College of  DuPage  as  found  in,  
but not limited to, the Code of Student Conduct, the online College catalog, the College of 
DuPage website, and the Board Policy and Procedures Manuals.   
20.  The Dean of Students  is  the  person  designated by  the  Vice President of Student Affairs to 
be responsible for   the administration of  the  Code  of  Student  Conduct.  The Dean  of  
Students may  designate  other  College  officials  to conduct  st  udent  judicial  hearings,  if 
appropriate. 
Student Rights and Responsibilities 
All college regulations and policies pertaining to student discipline shall be published, distributed, 
or posted in such a manner as to furnish adequate notice of their content to students or to student 
organizations. Regulations and policies can be found in, but not limited to, the Code of Student 
Conduct, the online College catalog, the College of DuPage website, and the Board Policy and 
Procedures Manuals. 
Each student is responsible for reading and complying with the Code of Student Conduct. Students 
shall be held accountable for their own conduct. 
The College recognizes each student’s procedural right to due process, which includes providing 
written notice setting forth the alleged violation(s) of the Code of Student Conduct, a prompt and 
fair hearing, and an appeal process. 
A student facing possible disciplinary action is entitled to the following procedural rights:  
1.   The right to be notified in writing of the specific charges against him/her, and his/her rights 
under this Code. 
2.   The right to know the nature of the evidence against him/her (unless the release of the 
evidence would endanger the safety or welfare of victim(s) or witness(es).  
3.   The right to a prompt formal judicial hearing and to present information and witnesses 
relevant to his/her defense, except in cases where interim suspension is warranted for the 
safety and welfare of the College community. 
4.   The right to be provided a list of findings by the Dean of Students, including the sanctions 
imposed, if found in violation of the Code of Student Conduct. 
5.   The right to an appeal hearing by the Judicial Review Board (JRB) of the decision or 
sanctions imposed by the Dean of Students. 
Code of Student Conduct Prohibited Behaviors 
Behavior which violates the aforementioned standards of morality, integrity, honesty, civility, 
tolerance and respect, and for which discipline may be imposed, includes, but is not limited to, the 
following: 
Acts of dishonesty, including, but not limited to: 
1.   Cheating, plagiarism, forgery, misrepresentation and all forms of academic dishonesty. For 
greater detail, refer to Board Policy and Procedure 20-41, Code of Academic Conduct. 
2.   Purposely furnishing false information to any College official, faculty member or office. 
3.   Knowingly instituting a false charge against another person. 

Page 4 of 11 
 
4.   Forgery, alteration or misuse of any College document, record, form or instrument of 
identification. 
5.   Permitting another to use his/her College identification card, impersonating another, or 
misrepresenting authorization to act on behalf of another.  
6.   Unauthorized or fraudulent use of the college name, seal, emblem, nickname or motto.  
7.   Theft, attempted theft, or mutilation of Library materials. 
8.   Possession of stolen items or the sale of stolen items from any source whatsoever. 
9.   Tampering with or engaging in voter fraud in the election of any College recognized student 
organization or the election of the Student Trustee. 
Disruption or obstruction of any operation of the College including, but not limited to, teaching, 
learning, disciplinary proceedings, College activities, public service functions on- or off-campus, or 
other authorized non-College activities when the act occurs on College premises, at the Regional 
Centers, at any off-campus instructional sites, either owned, leased or rented, or at off-campus 
College-sponsored or supervised events.  
Participation in a campus demonstration, or unauthorized assembly, that disrupts the normal 
operations of the College and infringes on the rights of other members of the College community; 
leading or inciting others to disrupt scheduled and/or normal activities on College premises; or 
intentional obstruction that unreasonably interferes with freedom of movement, either pedestrian or 
vehicular, on College premises.  
Failure to comply with directions of College officials, faculty members, College staff and law 
enforcement officers acting in performance of their duties, and/or failure to identify oneself to these 
persons when requested to do so by presenting a valid I.D. 
Intentional damage, destruction, or attempt to damage, destroy or deface College property or the 
property of a member of the College community. 
Unauthorized possession, duplication, or use of keys to any College premises, or unauthorized 
entry to, or use of, College premises. 
Unauthorized use, alteration, or in any way tampering with fire equipment, safety devices or safety 
equipment. Any action that causes or attempts to cause a fire, explosion, including bomb threats, 
or any intentionally false reporting of a fire, or the failure to leave College buildings during a fire 
alarm.  
Unauthorized occupancy of College buildings or facilities other than during hours of operation. 
Use or possession of a firearm, weapon or explosives, including, but not limited to, a pistol, 
revolver, rifle, shotgun, ammunition, switchblade or other dangerous knife, fireworks, any 
incendiary device, bomb or any object containing noxious or dangerous chemicals on College 
premises, at the Regional Centers, at any off-campus instructional sites, either owned, leased or 
rented, or at off-campus College-sponsored or supervised events, unless such use or possession 
is authorized by the College of DuPage Police Department. 
Theft, or attempted theft, of College property or the property of College personnel, other students, 
or any other person or the property of independent contractors maintained or stored on College 
premises. 
Solicitation, distribution, selling or promotion of materials on College of DuPage owned or 
controlled property. Distribution or placement of advertising flyers and related literature onto parked 
vehicles on campus. Exceptions include recognized student organizations after registering with the 
appropriate College official.  
 

Page 5 of 11 
 
Violation of published College Board Policies as stated in the College of DuPage Board Policy 
Manual, College of DuPage Administrative Procedures, departmental policies and procedures, and 
College of DuPage Police Department procedures. 
Verbal abuse, threats, use of offensive language, intimidation, bullying (including cyber-bullying), 
stalking, hazing, hate speech, coercion, lewd or indecent conduct, or other conduct that creates a 
hostile environment which threatens or endangers the safety and welfare of any person on College 
premises.  
Physical abuse, assault, battery, fighting, or other conduct resulting in bodily harm which threatens 
or endangers the safety and welfare of any person on College premises. 
Harassment, including, but not limited to: 
1.   Any verbal or physical behavior, such as a disparaging comment, epithet, slur, insult, or 
other expressive behavior, that is directed at a particular person or a group of persons, and 
which creates an environment wherein the verbal or physical behavior is inherently likely to 
provoke a violent reaction, whether or not it actually does so. 
2.   Any act, display, or communication that would cause a reasonable person to fear for his/her 
personal safety. This includes, but is not limited to, physical coercion and/or restraint. 
3.   Any act, display, or communication that causes substantial injury and/or distress on the part 
of the person or persons to whom it is specifically directed that results in the individual being 
deprived of educational activities or opportunities. 
4.   Any attempt to repeatedly make contact with a person over his/her stated objections, when 
such contact serves no legitimate purpose.  
5.   Refer to Board Policy 15-10, Prohibition of Discrimination and Harassment, for greater 
detail.  
Sexual discrimination, harassment and/or misconduct: See Board Policy and Procedure 15-11, 
Prohibition of Sexual Discrimination, Harassment, and Misconduct for definitions of and greater 
detail regarding such prohibited conduct. 
The denial of services or access to activities to an individual because of his or her race, religion, 
age, national origin, gender, sexual orientation, marital status, or disability. Refer to Board Policy 
20-5, Non-Discrimination Policy, for greater detail. 
Use, possession, sale, attempted sale, barter, exchange, gift, or distribution of alcoholic 
beverages, except as expressly permitted by law and College regulations. Public intoxication while 
on College premises, at off-campus instructional sites, or at College-sponsored or supervised 
functions. Refer to Board Policy and Procedure 15-30, Drug and Alcohol Free College, for greater 
detail. 
Use, possession, sale, attempted sale, barter, exchange, gift, or distribution of narcotic or other 
controlled substances, or drug paraphernalia, except as expressly permitted by law and College 
regulations. Refer to Board Policy and Procedure 15-30, Drug and Alcohol Free College, for 
greater detail. 
Use of tobacco and tobacco-related products (including electronic cigarettes) on all College of 
DuPage premises, in all indoor College facilities, and in all College vehicles. Refer to Board Policy 
and Procedure 10-160, Tobacco-Free Campus, for greater detail.  
Gambling of any kind, including unlawful games of chance for money or anything of value and the 
sale, barter, or other disposition of a ticket, order, or any interest in a scheme of chance by any 
name. 
Participating in, making claims of, or claiming responsibility for terrorist activity (such as threats of 
bombs, biological weapons, et. al.), whether in fact or as a hoax.  

Page 6 of 11 
 
Leaving minor children unattended on the College campus, at off-campus instructional sites, or at 
College-sponsored or supervised events. Children may not accompany students to class. 
Deliberate attempts to use gang representation, signing, and recruitment. 
Theft or abuse of College computers, facilities, network gear, applications, software, support 
systems, or data.  
1.   Abuses include (but are not limited to) unauthorized entry, access, or use of College 
networks, systems, applications, or transfer of data from College systems. Interfering with 
College security measures intended to protect data, systems, applications, and networks is 
also considered abuse.  
2.   Attaining unauthorized access to internet resources, disrupting the intended use of the 
internet, destroying the integrity of computer-based information, and/or compromising the 
privacy of users are abuses.  
3.   For Comprehensive Electronic Communications Guidelines which define the appropriate 
access, use, privacy, security, responsibilities, and limitations in the use of electronic 
communications at the College, including certain types of abuses that constitute criminal 
behavior, refer to “Electronic Communications Guidelines” located on the IT Security 
Website or Board Procedure 10-126, Electronic Communications Guidelines. 
Unauthorized use of cellular phones, pagers, and other telecommunication/electronic devices in all 
instructional areas which include: all labs and classrooms during instructional sessions, the Library, 
Testing Center and other areas designated by the College of DuPage administration.  
Unauthorized use of any form of technology for the purpose of photographing, videotaping, or 
audiotaping individuals in secured areas such as lavatories or locker rooms. Taking photographs, 
videos, or audio recordings of any individual while on College premises without his/her prior 
knowledge, or without his/her effective consent when such a recording is likely to cause distress or 
injury. 
Behavior conducted online, such as harassment delivered by email. Blogs, web pages, social 
networking sites, and other modes of electronic communication are in the public sphere, are not 
private, and can subject a student to allegations of misconduct.  
Abuse of the College of DuPage judicial system including, but not limited to: 
1.   Failure to obey the summons of a judicial body or College official 
2.   Falsification, distortion or misrepresentation of information before a judicial body 
3.   Disruption or interference with the orderly conduct of a judicial proceeding 
4.   Initiation of a judicial proceeding knowingly without cause 
5.   Attempting to influence the impartiality of a member of a judicial body prior to, and/or during, 
the course of, the judicial proceeding 
6.   Harassment (verbal or physical) and/or intimidation of a member of a judicial body prior to, 
during, and/or after a judicial proceeding 
7.   Failure to comply with the sanction(s) imposed under the Code of Student Conduct 
8.   Influencing or attempting to influence another person to commit an abuse of the judicial 
system  
Violation of federal, state, or local law on College premises, at off-campus instructional sites or at 
College-sponsored or supervised activities.  
1.   When a student is charged by federal, state, or local authorities with a violation of law, 
College of DuPage will not request or agree to special consideration for that individual 
because of his or her status as a student.  
2.   However, if the alleged offense is also the subject of a proceeding before a judicial body 
under the Code of Student Conduct, College of DuPage may advise off-campus authorities 

Page 7 of 11 
 
of the existence of the Code and of how such matters will be handled internally within the 
College community.  
3.   College of DuPage will cooperate fully with law enforcement and other agencies in the 
enforcement of criminal law on campus and in the conditions imposed by criminal courts for 
the rehabilitation of student violators.  
4.   Individual students and faculty members, acting in their personal capacities, remain free to 
interact with governmental representatives as they deem appropriate.  
Standard of Behavior in Common Areas Outside of the Classroom 
Students must follow the rules posted in all Common Areas outside of the classroom. Common 
Areas include, but are not limited to, the Library, Student Services Center and Student Life Lounge.  
These rules are designed to maintain a comfortable environment where all students feel welcome 
and interact in a respectful manner, conducive to study, research or socialization. Failure to comply 
with the posted rules or the directions of College of DuPage officials is a violation of the Code of 
Student Conduct. 
Charges and Hearings  
Any individual may file charges against any student for misconduct. Charges will be prepared in 
writing via the Code of Student Conduct Violation Incident Report and forwarded to the Dean of 
Students, who, as the Student Judicial Officer, is responsible for the administration of the College 
judicial system. Any charge should be submitted as soon as possible after the event takes place, 
preferably within 30 days. The Dean of Students will determine if the conduct is serious enough to 
warrant disciplinary action. Further investigation may be initiated to determine if the charges have 
merit. If the charges cannot be disposed of by mutual consent, a formal student judicial hearing will 
be held. 
Notification to Student of a Formal Judicial Hearing 
1.   In preparation for the formal judicial hearing, the Dean of Students will review the student’s 
file to determine if this is a first offense. 
2.   The Dean will place the student’s registration on temporary Hold, so that the student can 
neither withdraw from current courses nor register for future courses until the current matter 
is settled. 
3.   The Dean will notify the student in writing that the complaint has been filed:  
a.   The student will be required to attend a formal judicial hearing. 
b.   A copy of the Code of Student Conduct Violation Incident Report detailing the 
charges will be included with the hearing notice.  
c.   A copy of the Code of Student Conduct Procedures will be included with the hearing 
notice. 
4.   If the student fails to attend the formal judicial hearing or if the student does not respond to 
the hearing notice, the student’s registration record will remain on hold until the matter has 
been formally resolved. 
Formal Student Judicial Hearing 
1.   During the hearing, the Dean of Students will review both the complaint and the Code of 
Student Conduct Procedures with the student to ensure the student understands them 
clearly and is aware of the possible consequences. 
2.   The student will have an opportunity to present evidence and/or makes statements on 
his/her behalf. However, admission of any other person to the student judicial hearing will 
be at the discretion of the Dean of Students. 
3.   In hearings involving more than one accused student, the Dean of Students may permit the 
hearings concerning each student to be conducted together. 
4.   Upon the agreement of the complainant and the student, the Dean of Students may act as 

Page 8 of 11 
 
conciliator/mediator to resolve the complaint. After reviewing the evidence, the Dean of 
Students may decide to drop the complaint. If so, the Dean of Students will inform the 
person who filed the complaint and explain the decision. 
5.   At the conclusion of the hearing, the Dean of Students will complete the Case Resolution 
Form, assigning the appropriate sanctions(s).  
6.   In the event the student has been found at fault in an earlier incident involving a Code of 
Student Conduct violation, the Dean will determine the appropriate sanction(s). 
7.   If the student fails to appear for a scheduled student judicial hearing, the hearing may be 
held without the student’s presence, and sanctions may be imposed. The student will be 
advised of the sanctions in writing via the Case Resolution Form. 
8.   Unless the student has been removed from the College pending the processing of the 
disciplinary complaint, the student may remain in attendance at College of DuPage. 
9.   If coursework has been missed as a direct result of the action taken against the student, 
appropriate action will be taken to assist the student to complete the course(s). 
10. The Hold will be removed from the student’s record, unless additional action on the 
student’s part is required, such as Community Service or Restitution. If additional action is 
required, the Hold will be removed at its completion  
11. If the student is charged with harassment, the victim will be notified of the outcome of the 
hearing.  
Sanctions 
The following sanctions may be imposed upon any student found to be in violation of the Code of 
Student Conduct. More than one of the sanctions listed may be imposed for any single violation.  
A student may be required to participate in counseling, educational seminars, or to seek medical 
attention in lieu of, or in addition to, the imposition of sanctions.  
Disciplinary Warning: A notice in writing stating the student has violated the Code of Student 
Conduct.  
Disciplinary Probation: A reprimand for violation of specified regulations. Probation is for a 
designated period of time and includes the probability of more severe disciplinary sanctions if the 
student is again found to be in violation of the Code of Student Conduct during the probationary 
period.  
Disciplinary Loss of Privileges: Denial of access to privileges commonly available to applicants, 
students and alumni of College of DuPage; these may include, but are not limited to, access to 
particular student employee positions on campus, access to the Library, access to computer 
facilities, access to career and placement services, access to scholarships, access to academic 
honors, participation in clubs, organizations, athletics or campus activities. This loss of privileges 
may stand alone, it may accompany suspension, and it normally accompanies extended 
suspension.  
Withdrawal from Class: Administrative withdrawal from a class or classes in which a student is 
enrolled for the current and/or subsequent semester. Administrative withdrawals do not provide for 
the refund of tuition and fees.  
Limited Access: Administrative restriction to selected areas/locations of College facilities. 
Restitution: Compensation for loss, damage or injury. This may take the form of appropriate 
service and/or monetary or material replacement.  
Community Service: A project to help make reparation to the community and demonstrate that 
learning has occurred.  
 

Page 9 of 11 
 
Other Penalties: The student may be denied a transcript or degree until all of the obligations 
specified by the judicial body are met, or until other penalties are imposed as may be determined 
to fit the misconduct.  
Disciplinary Suspension: Denial of permission to register for academic work at College of DuPage 
for a designated period of time, usually not more than one year. Conditions for readmission will be 
specified by the Dean of Students; students under this sanction must petition the Dean of Students 
in writing for readmission to College of DuPage. 
Extended Disciplinary Suspension: Dismissal from College of DuPage for a designated period: 
students under this sanction must petition the Dean of Students in writing for readmission to 
College of DuPage.  
Summary Disciplinary Suspension: If, in the opinion of the Dean of Students and/or the Behavioral 
Intervention Team (BIT), a student’s conduct poses an immediate threat to him/herself, members 
of the College community or school property, or poses an on-going threat of disruption to the 
educational process, the student may be summarily suspended from the College without holding 
the student judicial hearing. In such an event, written notice sent by certified mail, return receipt 
requested, must be sent to the student on the date of the summary suspension. The notice will 
state the reason for the student’s removal from the College and will request the student contact or 
meet with the Dean of Students within three (3) business days after the notice is received. The 
notice will also state that failure to respond to the letter within three (3) business days of receipt will 
constitute waiver of the right to the conference. If the student fails to respond to the notice or fails 
to attend the conference, it will be considered a waiver of the conference. A student who presents 
such a threat to the educational process may also be suspended by the Dean of Students after an 
informal conference, pending the review of the complaint by the Behavioral Intervention Team. 
Expulsion: Permanent termination of student status from College of DuPage, with consequent loss 
of tuition and fees.   
Appeals 
A student who wishes to appeal the decision reached by the Dean of Students at the conclusion of 
a Judicial Hearing must appeal to the Judicial Review Board (JRB) within ten (10) business days of 
the date recorded on the Case Resolution Form received from the Dean of Students. Such appeals 
will be submitted in writing to the Vice President of Student Affairs.  
The appeal must be addressed to the Vice President of Student Affairs; it must be typewritten; and 
must state the grounds for appeal. If the student wishes to appear in person before the Judicial 
Review Board, this must be indicated in the appeal letter. The Vice President of Student Affairs will 
arrange a meeting convenient to all parties. In the event of an appeal, the decision(s) of the 
Judicial Review Board will be final in all cases, other than suspension or expulsion (See Hearing 
Procedures for the Judicial Review Board below). In the event the student does not appeal within 
the required ten (10) business day period, the decision of the Dean of Students will be final.  
Student Records 
A student placed on Disciplinary Suspension, Extended Disciplinary Suspension or Summary 
Suspension from the College will have a statement attached to the transcript indicating the student 
has been found in violation of the Code of Student Conduct. This statement will remain in the 
student’s file for up to seven years as determined by the Dean of Students. The student must 
petition the Dean of Students in writing to be readmitted. 
A student who has been expelled from the College will not be readmitted. 
 

Page 10 of 11 
 
Other than College Suspension and Expulsion, disciplinary sanctions will not be made part of the 
student’s permanent academic record; however, a record of the judicial proceedings will become 
part of the student’s confidential record maintained by the Dean of Students office for seven years.  
Maintenance of Disciplinary Records  
Except as specified above, disciplinary matters are kept confidential to the extent required by law. 
Disciplinary records will become part of the student’s confidential record maintained by the Dean of 
Students Office and will be maintained for a period of seven years. 
Judicial Review Board (JRB) 
Establishment of the Standing JRB 
A standing JRB will hear cases and make recommendations on appropriate disciplinary cases 
referred to it by the Vice President of Student Affairs or appealed to it by students who are the 
subject of disciplinary actions involving disciplinary suspension and expulsion. The JRB will be 
established each fall. It will be composed of the following persons: 
1.   Two (2) members of the administrative staff appointed by the Vice President of Student 
Affairs.  
2.   Two (2) members of the faculty appointed by the Vice President of Student Affairs. 
3.   One (1) member of the student body appointed by the Vice President of Student Affairs. 
 
None of the above-named persons may sit in any case in which they have a direct or personal 
interest. Decisions in this regard will be made by the JRB   as a whole. The Vice President of 
Student Affairs may appoint interim members as required. 
Hearing Procedures for the Judicial Review Board 
1.   The hearing will be closed to the public. 
2.   The student shall be entitled to appear in person, present his/her defense to the JRB, and 
may call witnesses in his/her behalf. 
3.   If the student is unable to attend or for some reason is unable to participate fully in the 
hearing, a designated representative may speak for the student. 
4.   The student may be accompanied by an advisor. An advisor is defined as a family member, 
peer, staff/faculty member of the College; it does not include legal counsel or an attorney at 
law. 
5.   The hearing will begin with a presentation by the College, followed by a presentation by the 
student. 
6.   The College and student may present information in oral and written form, by witnesses 
and/or through documents. The parties will be given an opportunity to question witnesses. 
7.   The JRB reserves the right to hear the testimony of witnesses separately, so that the 
witnesses will not hear each other’s testimonies. 
8.   Pertinent and relevant information will be reviewed by the JRB without regard for the legal 
rules of evidence. 
9.   The College and the student may make closing statements at the conclusion of the hearing 
on both the issue of misconduct and the issue of the recommended discipline. 
10. An audio recording of the proceedings will be created and will be made available to either 
party upon their request. 
11. The JRB will render its written decision within ten (10) business days after the hearing. The 
decision will be either that the student has violated the Code of Student Conduct or has not. 
If the student is found to be in violation of the Code of Student Conduct, the JRB will then 
determine or recommend a disciplinary action. 
12. If the student is found not to be in violation of the Code of Student Conduct, and if 
coursework has been missed as a direct result of the action taken against the student, 
appropriate action will be taken to assist the student in completing the course(s).  

Page 11 of 11 
 
13. In all cases other than suspension or expulsion, the decision of the JRB is final. 
14. If the decision of the JRB is to suspend the student, that decision will be transmitted to the 
Vice President of Student Affairs. The student will then have ten (10) business days after 
the decision to appeal to the Vice President of Student Affairs. The appeal will consist of the 
student’s written statement of disagreement with the decision and argument for reversal, 
relevant documentation and the recording or transcript of the JRB hearing. The Vice 
President of Student Affairs will review relevant information before making a decision. The 
Vice President of Student Affairs will render a decision to uphold the suspension or to take 
other appropriate action within fifteen (15) business days after receiving the student’s 
written appeal. If the Vice President of Student Affairs decides to impose a less severe 
sanction than suspension, the decision of the Vice President of Student Affairs is final. The 
Vice President of Student Affairs will not have the authority to increase the severity of the 
recommended sanction. 
15. If the decision of the JRB is to expel the student, that decision will be transmitted to the Vice 
President of Student Affairs. The student will then have ten (10) business days after the 
decision to appeal to the Vice President of Student Affairs. The appeal will consist of the 
student’s written statement of the disagreement with the decision and argument for reversal, 
relevant documentation and the recording or the transcript of the JRB hearing. The Vice 
President of Student Affairs will review the relevant information before making a decision. 
The Vice President of Student Affairs will render a decision to uphold the expulsion or to 
take other appropriate action within fifteen (15) business days after receiving the student’s 
written appeal. If the Vice President of Student Affairs decides to impose a sanction less 
severe than expulsion, the decision of the Vice President of Student Affairs is final. 
 
Interpretation and Revision 
1.   This Code is designed to function in conjunction with other Board Policies and Procedures. 
Refer to the following Policies and Procedures for greater detail: Board Policy and 
Procedure 10-126, Electronic Communications Guidelines;  Board Policy and Procedure 
10-160, Tobacco-Free Campus; Board Policy  15-10, Prohibition of Discrimination and 
Harassment; Board Policy and Procedure 15-11, Prohibition of Sexual Discrimination, 
Harassment and Misconduct; Board Policy and Procedure 15-30, Drug and Alcohol Free 
College; Board Policy and Procedure 20-5, Non Discrimination Policy; and Board Policy 
and Procedure 20-41, Code of Academic Conduct. 
2.   Questions of interpretation regarding the Code of Student Conduct shall be referred to the 
Dean of Students.  
3.   The Code of Student Conduct shall be reviewed periodically under the direction of the Dean 
of Students.  
4.   If any provision in the Code of Student Conduct is, or shall be at any time, contrary to or 
unauthorized by federal or state law, then such provisions(s) shall not be applicable, 
performed, or enforced except to the extent permitted by law.  
 
Policies are subject to change 
All policies found in the Board Policy Manual are subject to change from time to time, as approved 
by the College Board of Trustees. The Dean of Students Office publishes revisions in Code of 
Student Conduct Policy and Procedures in the online College catalog, the College of DuPage 
website, and the Board Policy and Procedures Manuals. 
 
 
Adopted: 10/01/09 
 
Reviewed: Amended: 4/07/14, 2/24/15 