https://www.cod.edu/hsti/pdf/htsi_brochure.pdf


Homeland Security Training Institute
HOMELAND SECURITY  
TRAINING INSTITUTE 
CONTACT US
College of DuPage  
Continuing Education
Homeland Security Training Institute 
Homeland Security Education Center 
(HEC) and Homeland Security Training 
Center (HTC)
425 Fawell Blvd., Glen Ellyn, IL
(630) 942-3723   
The Homeland Security Training Institute (HSTI) at College 
of DuPage is focused on education for law enforcement, fire 
science, first responders and corporate security personnel in 
the area of homeland security. Through a series of courses 
in program models such as law enforcement, disaster 
preparedness, counterterrorism, intelligence, emergency 
response, NIMS/NRF/ICS and private sector security, HSTI 
continues to develop programs for working professionals.

STATE-OF-THE-ART TRAINING
TACTICAL FIREARMS RANGE
The 50-yard firearms range is fully tactical and is designed 
to hold up to 24 shooters at a time. It allows vehicles to be 
placed down range and tactics to be added to the firearms 
qualifications. Gone are the days of standing in a stationary 
position and shooting at paper targets. You need to be able 
to get out of a vehicle, move, take cover and fire at targets. 
This new range allows for this type of dynamic training.
STREET SCENE 
The 4-D immersive street scene provides the most realistic 
training experience possible. The street scene allows 
departments to conduct tactical, real-world training 
exercises in a simulated environment.
Features:
 • A full-scale street with sidewalks and working  
        fire    hydrants
 • Squad cars driven onto the street for tactical  
        simulations    
 • An ambulance simulator
 • Lighting system to simulate night or day 
 • Moveable walls for vertical and horizontal rescues 
 • A sophisticated video system providing live feeds  
        to    classrooms
 • Observation spaces for students and instructors
911 TELECOMMUNICATOR 
SIMULATIONS
The 911 operator training program includes a computer-
aided design simulator for students to gain the experience 
of responding to and handling emergency calls.
MAT ROOM
The mat room in the Homeland Security Education Center 
(HEC) allows departments to reinforce defensive tactics, 
handcuffing and physical tactical maneuvers.
VIRTRA V300 SIMULATOR
This 300-degree simulator is uniquely equipped to train 
officers to avoid ambushes and handle the most difficult of 
real-world situations. Scenarios, often based on real-life 
incidents, are carefully crafted by subject matter experts to 
heavily test the trainee’s critical-thinking skills, firearms 
skills under pressure and psychological preparation for 
close-quarter combat.
TI TRAINING SIMULATOR
Ti Training prepares your department for split-second 
decisions. Use of force training puts your officers in the 
middle of the action providing a powerful and effective 
training experience. The practice and repetition prepares 
officers for the life-and-death situations they may 
encounter in the field.
MILO RANGE PRO
With 425 ready-to-train scenarios, MILO’s 
interactive use-of-force and firearms training put 
your officers in real-world scenarios such as active 
shooters, robberies, mentally disturbed individuals, 
burglaries and vehicle stops.
MILES SYSTEM
Adding realism to training exercises, the MILES 
System replicates both the actual firing capabilities 
and effects of weapons during training, detects hits 
from laser “bullets,” and performs damage and/or 
casualty assessments on targets.
LABS
The HEC houses a forensics lab, cyber lab and internet 
crime investigation lab.
To learn more about our facilities and 
continuing education courses, contact 
us at (630) 942-3723.
For ADA accommodations, call (630) 942-2141 (voice) or 
(630) 858-9692 (TDD). Please call two weeks in advance.
©2019 College of DuPage. All rights reserved.  CE-19-62971(8/19)1.5M