https://www.cod.edu/academics/accreditation/pdf/2022-peer-reviewer-report.pdf


  
Page 1 
 
 
 
 
College of DuPage 
HLC ID 1084 
STANDARD PATHWAY: Reaffirmation Review Review Date: 4/25/2022 
Dr. Brian Caputo 
President 
 
John Marr 
HLC Liaison 
Jill Carlson 
Review Team Chair 
David Jackson 
Federal Compliance Reviewer 
 
Wade Derden 
Team Member 
Jennifer McConville 
Team Member 
Stephanie Ferguson 
Team Member 
Brad Hodson 
Team Member 

  
Page 2 
 
 
 
Context and Nature of Review  
 
Review Date  
4/25/2022 
 
Review Type: 
Reaffirmation Review 
 
Scope of Review 
Reaffirmation Review 
Federal Compliance (if   applicable) 
On-site Visit 
Multi-campus Visit (if applicable) 
2021–22 COVID-19 Response Form 
 
Institutional Context  
A    five-person HLC peer review team visited the College of DuPage (COD) on Monday and Tuesday, April 25-26, 
2022. Covid protocols (proof of vaccination or recent negative test) were in effect and followed by the team as 
requested by the institution. The review was a   Standard Pathway Year Four Mid-Cycle Review with an included 
interim report with emphasis on general education outcomes and co-curricular assessment. This review also 
includes reaffirmation due to the removal of Probation.
 
COD is the largest community college and the second-largest provider (after the University of Illinois) of public 
undergraduate education in the state of Illinois. COD serves residents in most of DuPage County, and parts of Cook 
and Will counties. COD’s district includes over 50 communities, with a population of approximately 1    million 
people. COD’s student body continues to become increasingly more diverse, with 27 percent Latinx, 8    percent 
Black, 11 percent Asian, and 46 percent white. COD’s operating revenue is derived primarily from local taxes, 
tuition and fees, and state allocations.
 
The college has a state-of-the-art campus that includes 13 main buildings with almost two million square feet of 
space. COD also operates four strategically placed centers in  Addison, Carol Stream, Naperville, and Westmont.
 
COD is  governed by a Board of seven voting Trustees, elected from the district at large, and a    non-voting Student 
Trustee elected by the student body. 
As a comprehensive community college, COD meets five key community educational needs: Transfer Education, 
Career and Technical Education, Developmental Education, Continuing Education, and Business Training. COD 
grants seven degrees: Associate in Arts, Associate  in Science, Associate in Engineering Science, Associate in 
Applied Science, Associate in General Studies, Associate in Fine Arts in Art, and Associate in Fine Arts in Music. 
In addition, COD offers more than 160 certificates in over 70 areas of study. COD provides eight men’s and seven 
women’s NJCAA athletic teams with plans to add additional sports in the next few years. 

  
Page 3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Interactions with Constituencies  
 
President 
Academic Division Business Associate 
Accounting Supervisor 
Adjunct Faculty, Chemistry 
Adjunct Faculty, Speech 
Adjunct Faculty, Speech Communication 
Admin Assistant to Provost 
Admin Assistant, Academic Affairs 
Admin Assistant, Employee Development Center 
Admin Assistant, General Counsel 
Admin Assistant, IT Services 
Annual Giving Manager 
Assistant Professor, English 
Assistant Provost of Instruction 
Assistant Provost of Student Affairs 
Assoc Dean of Counseling, Advising, Transfer Services 
Assoc Professor, English 
Assoc Professor, Fashon Studies 
Assoc Professor, Library 
Assoc Professor, Nursing (2) 
Assoc Professor, Office Technology Information 
Assoc Professor, Political Science / Chair, Welfare 
Assoc Professor, Psychology 
Assoc Professor, Psychology / Chair, Instruction 
Assoc Vice President, Economic Development, Dean Continuing Education 
Associate Dean, Library 
Associate Dean, Public Services 
Associate Director Athletics 
Associate Professor, English 

  
Page 4 
 
 
 
Associate Professor, Library 
Associate Professor, Psychology 
Asst Manager, Center for Student Success 
Asst Professor, Chair Physical Therapist Assistant program 
Asst Professor, Computer and Information Technology 
Asst Professor, Development English 
Asst Professor, Physical Therapy Assistant program 
Asst Professor, Political Science 
Asst VP Economic Dev/Dean CE & Public Services 
Budget Manager 
Business Manager, MAC 
Business Solutions-Senior Manager 
Career Specialist 
Chair, Architecture 
Chair, Business 
Chair, Electronics Technology 
Chair, Human Services 
Chair, HVACR 
Chair, Motion Picture Television 
Chair, Philosophy and Religions 
Chair, Philosophy/Religious Studies 
Chair, Psychology 
Chair, Surgical Technology 
Chair/Professor, Motion Picture/Television 
Chief Financial Officer & Treasurer 
College Archivist 
Controller 
Coord. Operations Outreach Tech Support 
Coordinator of Accommodations 
Coordinator of Articulation and Partnerships 
Coordinator of Study Abroad 
Coordinator, Articulation and Partnerships 
Coordinator, Center for Student Success 

  
Page 5 
 
 
 
Coordinator, Marketing 
Coordinator, Math Assistance 
Coordinator, Operations & Outreach Tech Support 
Coordinator, Student Life 
Coordinator, Student Life/Adjunct, Humanities 
Coordinator, Study Abroad 
Coordinator, Tutoring Services 
Counselor 
CTE Program Improvement Manager 
Dean of Student Affairs 
Dean, Arts/Communication/Hospitality 
Dean, Business and Applied Technology 
Dean, Liberal Arts 
Dean, Nursing and Health Sciences 
Dean, Science, Technology, Engineering, Math 
Dean, Social & Behavioral Sciences 
Dept Chair/Professor, Horticulture 
Director of Athletics 
Director of Human Services 
Director, Assessment of Student Learning Outcomes 
Director, Compliance/Internal Audit/Ethics Officer 
Director, Facilities 
Director, Human Resources 
Director, Information Technology Services 
Director, Legislative Relations and Spec. Asst. to the President 
Director, MAC 
Director, Marketing and Creative Services 
Director, Pathways for Student Success 
Director, Resource & Analytics 
Division Chair, ACH / Assoc Professor, Speech Communication 
Dual Credit Specialist 
Employee Development Specialist 
Faculty, Architecture 

  
Page 6 
 
 
 
Faculty, Biology 
Faculty, Culinary Arts 
Faculty, Developmental English 
Faculty, PE 
Faculty, Psychology 
Faculty/Chair, Eye Care 
Fashion Studies Chair & Faculty 
General Counsel 
Grant Program Manager, Institutional Advancement 
Honor Program, Professor, English 
Horticulture Dept Chair, Professor 
Instructional Asst, Learning Commons 
Instructional Design, Facilitator 
Instructional Designer 
Instructional Technologist 
Int Dean, Social/Behavioral Sciences 
Interim Assistant Dean, Adjunct Faculty Support 
Interim Assoc Vice President Partnerships and Learning Res 
Interim Dean of Enrollment 
Interim Dean Social/Behavioral Sciences 
Interim Dean, Enrollment 
Interim Manager, Admissions, Campus Central and Outreach 
Interim Manager, Career Services 
Interim Manager, Learning Support 
Interim Manager, Registration 
Interim, Assoc. Vice President Assessment & Student Success 
Interim, Dean Social & Behavioral Sciences and Library 
Internal Marketing & Communications Manager 
Lab Software Supervisor 
Learning Tech Specialist 
Librarian 
Library Asst 
Manager of Academic Outreach 

  
Page 7 
 
 
 
Manager of Access and Accommodations 
Manager Student Diversity and Inclusion 
Manager, Access and Accommodations 
Manager, Accounting Operations & Financial Systems 
Manager, Adjunct Faculty Support 
Manager, Adult Education 
Manager, Annual Giving and Alumni Relations 
Manager, Communication and Events 
Manager, Curriculum and Centralized Scheduling 
Manager, Dual Credit/Dual Enrollment 
Manager, Field Studies/Study Abroad 
Manager, Fixed Assets/Construction/Facilities Ops Accountant 
Manager, Institutional Advancement 
Manager, Learning & Organizational Development 
Manager, Learning Technology 
Manager, Office and Classroom Technology 
Manager, Student Diversity and Inclusion 
Manager, Student Life 
Manager, Student Support Services 
Manager, Web Design 
New Student Orientation Leader 
Parent/Student 
Professor, Architecture 
Professor, Biology 
Professor, Biology / College Curriculum Committee member 
Professor, Business 
Professor, Electronics Technology 
Professor, Engineering 
Professor, English (2) 
Professor, Library 
Professor, Nursing & Health Sciences 
Professor, Political Science 
Professor, Political Science / President, CODFA 

  
Page 8 
 
 
 
Professor, Psychology 
Professor, Spanish 
Professor, Speech Communication / Dept Chairperson 
Professor, Speech Communications 
Professor/Librarian 
Program Chair, Architecture 
Program Development Manager 
Program Manager, Adult and Youth Enrichment 
Program of Study Alignment Coordinator 
Program Support Specialist 
Project Hire Ed. Manager 
Provost 
Reference Librarian 
Registrar 
Research Analysts (2) 
Research Specialist 
Senior Database Analyst 
Senior Director-Stud Financial Asst, Veteran Services, Scholarships 
Senior Manager, Business Solutions 
Senior News Bureau and Community Engagement Manager 
Senior Writer/Editor 
Speech Instructor, Director of Forensics 
STEM Division Chair 
STEM Instructor 
Student Athlete 
Student Athletic Enrichment Coordinator 
Student Leadership Council Officer 
Student Life Events Specialist 
Student Life Front Desk Specialist 
Student Success Specialist 
Student Trustee, Student 
Student Worker, Student Life 
Student Workers, Honors Program (2) 
Students (7) 

  
Page 9 
 
 
 
Supervisor, Centralized Scheduling 
Supervisor, Greenhouse 
Supervisor, Learning Commons 
Supervisor, Library 
Technical Services Librarian 
Vice President for Administrative Affairs 
Vice President of Planning and Institutional Effectiveness 
Vice President, Human Resources 
Vice President, Institutional Advancement 
Vice President, Public Relations, Communications & Marketing 
 
 
Additional Documents  
In addition to the documents provided in this Assurance Argument, COD provided a list of Recurring College 
Surveys which is located in the Addendum. 

  
Page 10 
 
 
 
1 - Mission 
 
The institution’s mission is  clear and articulated publicly; it  guides the institution’s operations. 
 
1.A -   Core Component 1.A 
 
The institution’s mission is  articulated publicly and operationalized throughout the institution. 
1. The mission was developed through a    process suited to  the context of the institution. 
2. The mission and related statements are current and reference the institution’s emphasis on the 
various aspects of its mission, such as instruction, scholarship, research, application of 
research, creative works, clinical service, public service, economic development and religious 
or cultural purpose. 
3. The mission and related statements identify the nature, scope and intended constituents of the 
higher education offerings and services the institution provides. 
4. The institution’s academic offerings, student support services and enrollment profile are 
consistent with its stated mission. 
5. The institution clearly articulates its   mission through public information, such as statements of 
purpose, vision, values, goals, plans or institutional priorities. 
 
Rating 
 
Met 
 
Rationale 
 
The College of DuPage's (COD) mission, vision, values, philosophy, and strategic plan were 
developed/updated through a year-long process that was collaborative and comprehensive across the 
college. The Strategic Long-Range Plan 2022-2026 was adopted by the Board in July 2020. 
The COD mission, vision, values, and philosophy are current. The emphasis in these statements 
clearly describes the college's focus on serving the residents of it's defined district. Access, diversity, 
affordability, and comprehensive education are significant points of focus. 
COD's academic offerings, support services, and enrollment profile are consistent with the stated 
mission. The college is  somewhat more diverse than its district. With a central location and satellite 
centers, accessibility is a significant strength. 
While the actual mission statement is longer, staff, faculty, administration, and governing board 
members were able to  articulate "student success" as their primary mission. The mission statement is 
prominent in the board room, on the website, and in similar locations across the college. 

  
Page 11 
 
 
 
 
 
Interim Monitoring (if applicable)  
No Interim Monitoring Recommended. 

  
Page 12 
 
 
 
1.B -   Core Component 1.B 
 
The institution’s mission demonstrates commitment to  the public good. 
1. The institution’s actions and decisions demonstrate that its educational role is  to  serve the 
public, not solely the institution or any superordinate entity. 
2. The institution’s educational responsibilities take primacy over other purposes, such as 
generating financial returns for investors, contributing to a related or parent organization, or 
supporting external interests. 
3. The institution engages with its external constituencies and responds to  their needs as its 
mission and capacity allow. 
 
Rating 
 
Met 
 
Rationale 
 
It was clear from the visit that the College of DuPage (COD) is solely dedicated to its educational 
purpose, not only through Illinois law, but also through its services, educational programming, and 
Strategic Long-Range Plan. The district is comprised primarily of DuPage County. Based on 
evidence such as financials, the college mission/vision/values, and the college website, it is  clear that 
the College of DuPage fully supports its educational mission. 
Through advisory boards, strong relationships with K-12 educational partners, law enforcement, fire 
protection, and local employers, it   is clear that COD has very strong relationships with its 
constituents. As a community college, COD is  clearly supporting the needs of its   district to the best of 
its capacity and mission. 
 
Interim Monitoring (if applicable) 
 
No Interim Monitoring Recommended. 

  
Page 13 
 
 
 
1.C -   Core Component 1.C 
 
The institution provides opportunities for civic engagement in a diverse, multicultural society and 
globally connected world, as appropriate within its mission and for the constituencies it serves. 
1. The institution encourages curricular or cocurricular activities that prepare students for 
informed citizenship and workplace success. 
2. The institution’s processes and activities demonstrate inclusive and equitable treatment of 
diverse populations. 
3. The institution fosters a climate of respect among all students, faculty, staff and administrators 
from a   range of diverse backgrounds, ideas and perspectives. 
 
Rating 
 
Met 
 
Rationale 
 
The College of DuPage (COD) provides a significant number of curricular, co-curricular, and 
extracurricular
 activities that help to prepare its students to thrive in today's globally connected 
world. These include service-learning opportunities, career services support, as well as field studies, 
and studies abroad. The general education outcomes include expression and expression of ideas, 
cultural and historical comprehension, and human behavior and societal knowledge.
 
COD is somewhat more diverse than its district and strives to provide an example of successful 
inclusion and equitable treatment of all students in order to exemplify these behaviors for the college 
district. Board policies provide an underpinning to ensure ethical and equitable behaviors. 
Through its most recent strategic planning process, COD has strengthened its emphasis on diversity 
and equity. This was also clear from conversations with the college president, governing board 
members, and the diversity of the faculty, staff, and students who attended the open forum sessions. 
 
Interim Monitoring (if applicable) 
 
No Interim Monitoring Recommended. 

  
Page 14 
 
 
 
1.S -   Criterion 1 - Summary  
 
The institution’s mission is  clear and articulated publicly; it  guides the institution’s operations. 
 
Rationale  
It was abundantly clear to the visiting team that the College of DuPage strives to embody its stated 
mission: is to  be a center for excellence in teaching, learning, and cultural experiences by providing 
accessible, affordable, and comprehensive education. 
The college values have been updated to include Integrity, Honesty, Respect, Responsibility, and 
Equity. College leadership has made great strides in ensuring its   practices reflect these values across 
its operations. 

  
Page 15 
 
 
 
2 - Integrity: Ethical and Responsible Conduct 
 
The institution acts with integrity; its   conduct is  ethical and responsible. 
 
2.A -   Core Component 2.A 
 
The institution establishes and follows policies and processes to  ensure fair and ethical behavior on 
the part of its governing board, administration, faculty and staff. 
1. The institution develops and the governing board adopts the mission. 
2. The institution operates with integrity in its financial, academic, human resources and 
auxiliary functions. 
 
Rating 
 
Met 
 
Rationale 
 
College of DuPage (COD) operates in accordance with the Illinois Public Community College Act of 
1965 (110 ILCS 805/). The Board of Trustees developed a process to adopt the mission, vision, 
philosophy, and other related statements and they engaged various constituencies, including a Shared 
Governance Council, in defining these statements as   part of the development of the Strategic Long- 
Range Plan (SLRP). The SLRP is a central document on campus. It is readily available to all 
members of the campus community, and conversations during open forums affirmed that members of 
the campus community believed they had been appropriately engaged in its development. Board 
agendas and minutes prove that the Board of Trustees considers these documents and approves them. 
Board members demonstrated both their commitment to and knowledge of the college’s mission 
during the site visit. In fact, the COD mission statement and value statement adorn the walls of the 
board’s meeting room. 
Policy 1.06 outlines the responsibilities of the Board of Trustees regarding the finances of the college, 
and the Board has set further policies and practices including establishing an Internal Auditor with 
the power
 of investigation. The auditor's role is to ensure the integrity of the college’s financial 
position and to collaborate with a Board Audit Committee. In terms of financial integrity, COD 
represents itself clearly by making budget documents available and providing a    Budget in
 Brief for 
easier public access and comprehension. The college has received an “Aaa” rating from Moody’s 
Investment Services indicating that the college is financially stable with
 a strong reserve and a 
conservative approach to budgeting. Board members recognize their
 fiduciary responsibility and 
demonstrated knowledge of the budget in conversation with the site visitors. Likewise, the faculty 
and staff attending open criterion sessions demonstrated a robust understanding of the budgetary 
process. 
In terms of Human Resources integrity, COD policies align with best practices. The college’s 

  
Page 16 
 
 
commitment to the recurring training of all members of faculty, staff, and board on issues of 
discrimination, sexual harassment, ethics, information security, active shooter awareness, and more 
is commendable. In conversations with staff and faculty, it was noted more than once that all 
employees are required to take a series of annual trainings that include developing an awareness of 
ethical behavior. An ethics hotline is available to faculty and staff and the number is posted across 
campus as well as on the internal intranet employee dashboard. Faculty and staff are encouraged to 
use this hotline if they have concerns about ethics violations. 
COD adheres to Illinois state law in a   number of areas, such as Policy 3.10’s prohibition of 
discrimination and harassment and Policy 3.11’s prohibition of sex discrimination, sexual 
harassment, sexual violence, and relationship violence. The college’s public documents, including 
the SLRP, focus on equity and inclusion
 thereby reflecting the college’s value of respect, which 
states, “We expect courtesy and dignity in all interpersonal interactions.” There are a number
 of 
guidebooks provided by COD as evidence outlining various human resources policies and procedures 
of the campus. 
The college maintains policies to direct the academic activities of the campus from student accounts 
and advising to code of conduct and intellectual property rights. The academic policies stated in
 the 
College Policy Manual are robust, clear, and publicly articulated. The Provost Council is responsible 
for the integrity of the curriculum and academic program. An Academic Committee of the Board of 
Trustees reviews academic matters before they come to the full
 board to ensure any changes are 
aligned with the mission and needs of the community. Likewise, the auxiliary functions of the college 
appear to be stable and revenues are estimated to outpace expenditures according to the FY2022. 
 
Interim Monitoring (if applicable)  
No Interim Monitoring Recommended. 

  
Page 17 
 
 
 
2.B - Core Component 2.B  
 
The institution presents itself clearly and completely to  its   students and to  the public. 
1. The institution ensures the accuracy of any representations it makes regarding academic 
offerings, requirements, faculty and staff, costs to students, governance structure and 
accreditation relationships.
 
2. The institution ensures evidence is  available to  support any claims it makes regarding its 
contributions to the educational experience through research, community engagement, 
experiential learning, religious or
 spiritual purpose and economic development. 
 
Rating  
Met 
 
Rationale  
The College of DuPage (COD) presents information critical to students and the public through the 
college catalog and website. Evidence was found for disclosure of the specific requirements, the 
tuition, and various fees that may apply in any given academic program. Admission requirements are 
clearly stated and resources are specifically aimed at different subgroups of students in a helpful 
manner, for example, traditional students, adult students, and health science students. Weblinks 
provided for registration and records, costs, scholarships and aid, student life and resources, and 
athletics all provide a clear
 representation of the college and its offerings. Graduation requirements 
for all    programs are provided in detail via the college catalog, which is available online.
 
The “About Us” area of the website includes important information about the college, Board of 
Trustees, President, college leadership, and the accreditation relationship with HLC, including copies 
of previous HLC findings. Programmatic accreditations and related pass rates and degree information 
are provided on the individual programmatic web pages. Minutes and agendas for all Board of 
Trustee activities, including the Board's committee meetings, are available to the public in
 a 
transparent manner. The faculty along with their credentials are listed publicly via the college catalog 
and their office number and contact information can be found in a dedicated faculty directory. For 
adjunct faculty, a contact email address is provided.
 
COD provides a    number of pieces of evidence to  demonstrate its   commitment to the community and a 
supportive campus climate. These include a   2019 Pulse Survey that examines the views of 500 
college district residents on matters such as academic reputation, name recognition, the reputation of 
programs, and areas of strength and weakness. Likewise, the campus environment was measured in 
2017 via PACE and Noel-Levitz SSI surveys. Both surveys show noted improvement in areas of 
concern,
 especially the PACE survey, which analyzes how employees view the college. The campus 
is currently administering a new PACE survey with
 results due in May 2022. The administration 
values the information garnered from these types of environmental scans and emphasized their intent 
to continue this practice. A schedule for all surveys was provided to the site visitors upon request. 
As a   community college, COD is  not a    research institution; however, the college does provide 

  
Page 18 
 
 
service-learning opportunities to students in an effort to provide “crucial real-world experience” and 
to create well-rounded students. One example of this type of hands-on
 experience can be seen in the 
Hospitality and Tourism Management program in which students have access to a hotel simulation 
facility, the Inn at Water’s Edge. Here, students can host real guests overnight and receive training to 
better prepare them for the hospitality workforce. Likewise, the Homeland Security Training Institute 
provides an education center where students can put into practice the theory they are learning in five 
appropriate labs that include an immersive, urban street scene and a mock courtroom. 
 
Interim Monitoring (if applicable)  
No Interim Monitoring Recommended. 

College of DuPage - Fact Check - Exported on 5/17/2022 - DRAFT - 
 
  
2.C - Core Component 2.C  
 
The governing board of the institution is autonomous to  make decisions in the best interest of the 
institution in compliance with board policies and to ensure the institution’s integrity. 
1. The governing board is  trained and knowledgeable so that it makes informed decisions with 
respect to the institution’s financial and academic policies and practices; the board meets its 
legal and fiduciary responsibilities. 
2. The governing board’s deliberations reflect priorities to  preserve and enhance the institution. 
3. The governing board reviews the reasonable and relevant interests of the institution’s internal 
and external constituencies during its decision-making deliberations. 
4. The governing board preserves its   independence from undue influence on the part of donors, 
elected officials, ownership interests or other external parties. 
5. The governing board delegates day-to-day management of the institution to the institution’s 
administration and expects the institution’s faculty to oversee academic matters. 
 
Rating  
Met 
 
Rationale  
The COD Board of Trustees has full authority over all aspects of college operations as authorized by 
the State of Illinois and acts autonomously in the interest of the college according to Policy 1.06, 
which outlines the “Authority, Powers, Duties, and Responsibilities of the Board.” The elected Board 
of Trustees is required by the Illinois Public Community College Act to “complete a minimum of 4 
hours of professional development leadership training covering topics that shall include, but are not 
limited to,  open meetings law, community college and labor
 law, freedom of information law, 
contract law, ethics, sexual violence on campus, financial oversight and accountability, audits, and 
fiduciary responsibilities of a community college trustee during the first, third, and fifth year of his or 
her term.” These requirements are reiterated in the COD Policy 1.15. Certifications were provided 
from the Illinois Community College Trustees Association demonstrating that each voting board 
member has completed the mandated leadership training.
 
The student member of the Board is  exempt from these requirements as the student is non-voting. In 
addition to formal training, COD provides periodic board retreats to review more closely issues 
facing the college. New board members receive an orientation via activities with the president and 
via videos on key aspects of the college’s operations and history. In a discussion with Board 
members, they indicated that they were satisfied with
 these training efforts and believed these 
activities prepared and assisted them in guiding the college. In addition, the Board members are 
active at the state and national levels. They take their
 responsibilities seriously and seek extra 
training opportunities to improve their
 knowledge and skills, especially in regard to their fiduciary 
responsibilities. 
The college maintains the Board meeting agendas, minutes, packets, and some audio/video archives 
on the website. Meetings are also live-streamed for the public. Agenda topics include reports from the 
Page 19
 

College of DuPage - Fact Check - Exported on 5/17/2022 - DRAFT - 
Page 20 
 
 
president, academic committees, planning presentations, grants updates, financial statements, 
construction updates, and other items that are standard for a modern community college. The Board 
provides a public hearing of the annual budgets. Minutes demonstrate that meetings are also attended 
by “staff members, representatives of the press and visitors,” and the Board members confirmed that 
meetings are actively attended and often last for several hours. The activities of the Board, as 
reflected in the agendas, packets, and minutes of the Board meetings, show a significant level of 
involvement in the college’s operations and reflect the involvement of internal and external 
constituencies in the decision-making process. In addition, state law requires Board meetings to be 
open to the public and allow for public comment.
 
College Policy 3.02 addresses conflicts of interest for the Board and all employees of the college. All 
college personnel are called to  “recognize and avoid circumstances” that may be considered a    conflict 
of interest. Examples of conflicts are provided in this policy. Board members are required to disclose 
potential conflicts and to avoid voting on matters that may appear to be conflicts of interest. In 
addition, Policy 3.03 requires the disclosure of any economic interest that may conflict with
 the 
ethical operations of the college, which is outlined in the Illinois Governmental Ethics Act. These 
matters and determinations regarding conflicts are subject to the review of the campus Audit 
Committee. The duties of the president are clearly outlined in
 Policy 4.21 and the Board maintains 
oversight over the actions of the president through an annual evaluation process in accordance with 
Policy 4.22. Furthermore, the Board’s involvement in academic matters is clarified in the collective 
bargaining agreement made between
 the Board and the Faculty Association. 
 
Interim Monitoring (if applicable)  
No Interim Monitoring Recommended. 

College of DuPage - Fact Check - Exported on 5/17/2022 - DRAFT - 
Page 21 
 
 
 
2.D -   Core Component 2.D 
 
The institution is committed to  academic freedom and freedom of expression in the pursuit of truth in 
teaching and learning. 
 
Rating 
 
Met 
 
Rationale 
 
The November 15, 2018 Board of Trustees minutes were provided as   evidence of the college’s 
commitment to freedom of expression and the pursuit of truth in teaching and learning. The Board 
acted at that time to alter the college’s philosophy statement to support diversity and to strengthen its 
commitment to freedom of expression. In addition, Policy 6.12 and section C2 of the current faculty 
contract provide evidence that academic freedom is protected on the campus. For
 example, the 
faculty contract section states, "Academic freedom shall be guaranteed to  all Faculty Members and no 
arbitrary limitations shall be placed upon study, investigation, presentation, and interpretation of 
facts and ideas concerning humans, societies, the physical and biological world, and other branches 
of learning." While some concerns were expressed among faculty leadership about the nature of 
program development and implementation, these same leaders noted that the administration was 
engaged with them, was aware of their
 concerns, and that dialogue was ongoing. At no time was it 
indicated that the values of freedom of expression or
 academic freedom were being limited or 
infringed. 
 
Interim Monitoring (if applicable) 
 
No Interim Monitoring Recommended. 
 
 

College of DuPage - Fact Check - Exported on 5/17/2022 - DRAFT - 
Page 22 
 
 
 
2.E -   Core Component 2.E  
 
The institution’s policies and procedures call for responsible acquisition, discovery and application of 
knowledge by its faculty, staff and students. 
1. Institutions supporting basic and applied research maintain professional standards and provide 
oversight ensuring regulatory compliance, ethical behavior and fiscal accountability. 
2. The institution provides effective support services to  ensure the integrity of research and 
scholarly practice conducted by its faculty, staff and students. 
3. The institution provides students guidance in the ethics of research and use of information 
resources. 
4. The institution enforces policies on academic honesty and integrity. 
 
Rating  
Met 
 
Rationale  
Evidence demonstrating COD’s pursuit of scholarly practice includes the use of an Institutional 
Review Board to ensure that what research does occur
 adheres to ethical principles. A sample IRB 
approval letter is provided in the evidence file to  demonstrate the activity of the IRB. Meanwhile, the 
college’s library staff have created a number of appropriate and relevant research guides for students 
in a variety of disciplines. These assist students in finding discipline-appropriate sources as   well as 
providing guidance on how to use and cite sources.
 
The library’s website has a link for students who wish to schedule an appointment with a dedicated 
research librarian as well as links for citing sources. The college also has “writing coaches” available 
to students, and the Assurance Argument notes that several thousand appointments are made 
annually. A visit to the library while on campus reinforced that the library staff is  working to provide 
appropriate guidance to students. Through these activities, the college meets the accreditation 
expectations for
 encouraging the integrity of research and the ethical use of information. 
College Policy 5.16 requires COD to maintain an academic code of conduct for the campus. This 
code of conduct is outlined in detail in the college’s web-based catalog and in the Administrative 
Procedure Manual (Procedure No. 20-41). Academic conduct violations are defined and procedures 
for addressing such violations are outlined clearly. These procedures include guidance for everything 
from an informal resolution to formal action that includes a judicial hearing. Academic Conduct 
Violation Incident Reports are filed in accordance with this procedure and reviewed by the Dean
 of 
Students. The Assurance Argument provides adequate evidence that these policies are enforced, 
including a summation of the types of violations and the disciplinary actions taken. It is clear that 
COD takes academic conduct and ethical research
 seriously by the evidence provided and as 
reinforced in conversations had on the campus.
 

College of DuPage - Fact Check - Exported on 5/17/2022 - DRAFT - 
Page 23 
 
 
Interim Monitoring (if applicable)  
No Interim Monitoring Recommended. 

College of DuPage - Fact Check - Exported on 5/17/2022 - DRAFT - 
Page 24 
 
 
 
2.S -   Criterion 2 - Summary  
 
The institution acts with integrity; its   conduct is  ethical and responsible. 
 
Rationale  
College of Dupage (COD) operates in accordance with Illinois state law. Evidence indicates that the 
Board of Trustees is  responsible for considering and adopting the mission, vision, and philosophy of 
the college. The Board engages the community and campus constituencies as   it reexamines the 
college’s position through the development of the Strategic Long-Range Plan (SLRP). The most 
recent version of the SLRP is well known and readily available across the campus. COD operates 
with integrity in its financial, academic, human resources, and auxiliary functions as demonstrated 
by mandatory, annual ethics training in a   number of areas and the availability of an ethics hotline. 
Legal counsel and internal auditing functions are available to the Board of Trustees to ensure 
compliance with college policy, state law, and federal law.
 
COD presents itself clearly and completely to  its students and to the public through a robust website, 
in publications, and in the data it   shares with various constituencies of the campus. In addition, as a 
very large campus, the administration uses a number of surveys to understand its position within the 
community, the needs of students, and the concerns of faculty and staff. Evidence from the visit 
demonstrates that COD supports the claims it makes about it the educational experience students will 
receive. In addition, evidence found in college policy and affirmed in a visit with the Board of 
Trustees shows a clear
 commitment to understanding the Board’s responsibilities to the college and 
to the campus. Board members are active, engaged, and commit a large amount of personal time in 
service to the campus. As per
 law, Board meetings are public and appear to be well attended. 
In speaking with the Board of Trustees during the site visit, it was evident that past questionable 
actions by Board members and campus leaders weigh heavily on
 their minds. They are sincere in 
their efforts to guide the campus ethically. However, as the Board members’ terms are six years with 
two board positions up for election on a rotating basis, the composition of the Board of Trustees 
changes regularly. While the current Board may be cautious in its approach to enduring ethical 
conduct, the future composition
 of the board is unknown. Thus, the college may consider more 
clearly institutionalizing ways to ensure the continued oversight of the board in
 a manner that 
prevents any conflicts of interest. This may include not just recusal from a vote but also recusal from 
any discussion when a conflict arises. In addition, it is apparent that the workload commitment of the 
Board of Trustees is very high, which may result in a loss of interest in service to COD in the future. 
The college leadership and Board members should be mindful of this strain and consider
 what truly 
needs Board approval or attention and what does not.
 
Finally, the Board members are elected to at  -large positions from the whole district, which serves 
over one million residents (more than a congressional district). Board members disclosed that they 
are from the same sub-region of the district. If Illinois law allows, the college leadership and Board 
may want to  consider ways to  elect Board members from different precincts within the district. This 
may allow for better representation of other areas of the district, particularly from underrepresented 
populations thereby adding diversity. 
No concerns were indicated during the site visit regarding limitations on freedom of expression or 

College of DuPage - Fact Check - Exported on 5/17/2022 - DRAFT - 
Page 25 
 
 
academic freedom. In fact, it appears that the faculty have a great deal of leeway in their course 
offerings beyond what is  typical for a community college catalog. A quick scan of the course catalog, 
for instance, found English courses in Poetry, Science Fiction, Children’s Literature, and Native 
American Literature. Likewise, history courses revealed options in the study of Chicago, Asia, 
Russia, Japan, and numerous other
 highly specialized areas that are more typically left to majors 
taking junior- and senior-level courses. The same can be found in any number
 of disciplines. The 
college promotes its effort to institute the Guided Pathways initiative as   a means of ensuring that 
students are transferring to four-year
 institutions without unnecessary credit, but these offerings 
would appear to run contrary to that effort. While it is commendable that the faculty are making 
efforts to provide diverse offerings to students, it   may be in
 the faculty’s best interest to research the 
transferability of these types of courses and to ensure that students are being appropriately served. It 
may also be appropriate to  decrease the number of courses offered and to  dedicate the focus on a core 
of transferable courses. 
Finally, it is clear from the policies and procedures and the evidence found during the site visit that 
COD faculty, staff, and administrators value academic integrity and honesty. They strive to provide 
students with everything necessary to be successful in an academic environment. The resources 
available to students, especially the library and wrap-around tutoring and support services, are 
impressive. The faculty and staff that were engaged during the site visit are proud of the college and 
seek to serve students as   they pursue their academic interests. 
 
 
 

College of DuPage - Fact Check - Exported on 5/17/2022 - DRAFT - 
Page 26 
 
 
 
3 - Teaching and Learning: Quality, Resources and Support 
 
The institution provides quality education, wherever and however its   offerings are delivered. 
 
3.A -   Core Component 3.A 
 
The rigor of the institution’s academic offerings is  appropriate to  higher education. 
1. Courses and programs are current and require levels of student performance appropriate to  the 
credential awarded. 
2. The institution articulates and differentiates learning goals for its undergraduate, graduate, 
post-baccalaureate, post-graduate and certificate programs. 
3. The institution’s program quality and learning goals are consistent across all modes of delivery 
and all locations (on the main campus, at additional locations, by distance delivery, as dual 
credit, through contractual or consortial arrangements, or any other modality).
 
 
Rating 
 
Met 
 
Rationale 
 
The College of DuPage (COD) has a process for approving and updating courses and programs. 
Division and college curriculum committees of the college review proposals for new and updated 
courses and programs submitted by faculty before they are forwarded to the Board of Trustees.
 The 
Board reviews and approves programs as   the final institutional action. For
 example, during 
interactions with the Board of Trustees during the site visit, it   was mentioned that they had just 
approved a new aviation program. Following institutional approval, proposals for
 new programs go 
to the Illinois Community College Board for
 review and approval. Evidence provided in the 
assurance argument includes meeting minutes from both division and college curriculum committees. 
The process for reviewing and approving new programs includes a   feasibility study, discussion of 
how to assure quality in
 the new program, cost-effectiveness of the program, financial analysis of 
both the revenue and expenditures, curriculum details, how student learning will be assessed, faculty 
qualifications, and academic control information. This information is based on the HLC substantive 
change forms and provides a consistent base of data on the new program for decision making from 
the department and program level, through the Board of Trustees, and on to the state and accrediting 
bodies. 
COD Board Policy 6.02 was created to define how academic credit is assigned and awarded. The 
policy, contained in the assurance argument, details how the institution's practice in this area is 
consistent with commonly accepted credit hour practices in higher education, including the federal 
definition of the credit hour. The policy states, "The College will equate its   learning experiences with 
semester credit hours." As evidence of this practice, all    academic program lengths at   the COD are 

College of DuPage - Fact Check - Exported on 5/17/2022 - DRAFT - 
Page 27 
 
 
measured by credit hour and are consistent with the standards set by Illinois Community College 
Board. For example, the seven associate degrees conferred by COD require the student to earn a 
minimum of 64 credits. 
COD maintains several active articulation agreements with four-year institutions that require its 
programs to be rigorous and relevant. These include Northern
 Illinois University, University of 
Illinois – Chicago, the University of Illinois – Champaign-Urbana, and DePaul University. During 
the site visit, the team heard discussions at both the administrative and faculty levels about working 
collaboratively with these partner four-year institutions to ensure ease of transfer for credit hours 
earned at COD to four-year universities.
 
Undergraduate credentials awarded by COD are the certificate and the associate's degree. Currently, 
the institution awards seven associate degrees. The distinction between a certificate credential and an 
associate's degree is characterized by the requirement of the completion of the core general education 
curriculum for associate's degree recipients. The general education curriculum is built around seven 
learning outcomes: critical thinking, information literacy, cultural and historical comprehension, 
expression and exchange of ideas, human behavior and societal knowledge, quantitative reasoning, 
and scientific reasoning. The maintenance of the general education curriculum is  divided between the 
Student Learning and Assessment Committee (SLAC), which oversees critical thinking and 
information literacy, and individual academic departments that oversee the remaining areas of the 
core curriculum. 
Each academic program of study at COD maintains its own unique outcomes and individual courses 
have customized student learning objectives. The outcomes are publicly communicated through the 
institution’s website and the course learning outcomes are published in
 the syllabus and on the 
learning management system, BlackBoard. Students are made aware of the outcomes through these 
mechanisms. During the site visit, the team interacted with a broad array of faculty and 
administration who participate in the assessment process. Faculty expressed ownership of course and 
program assessment outcomes and processes, while the SLAC and related staff discussed numerous 
professional development opportunities in the area of assessment, including regular in-service days.
 
The COD delivers courses in  five modalities: face-to -face, online synchronous, online asynchronous, 
hybrid, and dual credit. According to  both the assurance argument and evidence collected during the 
site visit, regardless of the delivery method, all courses at the COD adhere to the master syllabus. A 
review of a sample of syllabi shows different sections of the same course have identical student 
learning outcomes. The team did feel that the COD could benefit from the purchase of a syllabi 
management software package. This would allow them to more closely track student learning 
outcomes across sections, courses, and programs and link them to broader
 institutional learning 
outcome goals. 
The institution aids both faculty and students in support of different learning modalities. These 
include faculty professional development through in -service days, remote tutoring, testing, advising, 
and technology loans. However, the most notable form of assistance provided in support of student 
learning was the very robust program for
 supporting adjunct faculty. According to the assurance 
argument, 62% of all COD faculty are adjuncts. The institution has created an administrative office 
whose sole responsibility is to onboard new adjunct faculty and provide continuous support to these 
part-time faculty throughout their teaching relationship with the COD. For example, new adjunct 
faculty are observed at least once during their first year of teaching, often within the first semester. 
The information collected through this observation is used to improve instruction through a 
mentoring program between the department chair
 and adjunct faculty. Adjunct faculty are also 

College of DuPage - Fact Check - Exported on 5/17/2022 - DRAFT - 
Page 28 
 
 
included in the existing faculty evaluation process, which requires observation and information 
collected from student course evaluations. 
As final evidence of the COD's commitment to quality teaching and learning, particularly among its 
adjunct population is the Adjunct Faculty Training Institute (AFTI). The work of this program begins 
even before an adjunct is hired with a review of candidate credentials and fit for the courses proposed 
to be taught. As ongoing training, the AFTI hosts sessions on student success; diversity, equity, and 
inclusion; assessment, college teaching, how to engage students in the classroom; and classroom 
management. These sessions are open
 to not only adjunct faculty but also full-time faculty at the 
COD. Overall, the site visit team felt the COD's adjunct faculty support program was one of the 
shining stars of the institution's services and worthy of replication
 by two-  and four-year institutions 
of higher education across the country.
 
 
Interim Monitoring (if applicable)  
No Interim Monitoring Recommended. 
 
 

College of DuPage - Fact Check - Exported on 5/17/2022 - DRAFT - 
 
  
3.B - Core Component 3.B  
 
The institution offers programs that engage students in collecting, analyzing and communicating 
information; in mastering modes of intellectual inquiry or creative work; and in developing skills 
adaptable to changing environments. 
1. The general education program is  appropriate to  the mission, educational offerings and degree 
levels of the institution. The institution articulates the purposes, content and intended learning 
outcomes of its undergraduate general education requirements. 
2. The program of general education is grounded in a philosophy or framework developed by the 
institution or adopted from an established framework. It imparts broad knowledge and 
intellectual concepts to students and develops skills and attitudes that the institution believes 
every college-educated person should possess.
 
3. The education offered by the institution recognizes the human and cultural diversity and 
provides students with growth opportunities and lifelong skills to live and work in a 
multicultural world. 
4. The faculty and students contribute to  scholarship, creative work and the discovery of 
knowledge to the extent appropriate to their offerings and the institution’s mission. 
 
Rating  
Met 
 
 
Rationale  
The College of DuPage (COD) maintains a general education curriculum that requires at least 18 
credits in courses in seven categories. This is an appropriate level of general education instruction 
given all associate degrees at    the institution require a minimum of 64 credit hours, which includes 
the general education courses. The general education curriculum was developed to  be consistent with 
the institution's mission, educational offerings, and that of an associate's degree-granting institution.
 
The faculty at the COD have created general education student learning outcomes to measure the 
efficacy of the general education
 curriculum and to facilitate ongoing improvements to the offerings 
over
 time. These general education learning outcomes and the related curriculum requirements are 
communicated to students through the institution’s website, on posters throughout campus, through 
program requirement publications, and individual course syllabi. The site visit team encourages COD 
to more clearly and consistently link its general education student learning outcomes within its 
program and course requirements via the syllabi and assessment evidence, thereby showing 
alignment between the two aspects of assessment and curriculum management.
 
The purpose of the general education curriculum is to ensure graduates gain “a broad body of 
knowledge and skills common to all    educated people, regardless of their
 profession.” When asked 
during the site visit how this philosophy was developed, a   faculty member
 relayed a   story of broad 
collaboration amongst faculty and academic leadership. For example, there have been regular 
additions and deletions to  the general education curriculum over the years. These changes have been 
facilitated by faculty input through both the Student Learning and Assessment Committee (SLAC) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 29 

College of DuPage - Fact Check - Exported on 5/17/2022 - DRAFT - 
Page 30 
 
 
and the general education committee. 
Students interact with the general education curriculum by taking courses in seven broad categories: 
humanities and fine arts, communication, mathematics, physical and life sciences, social and 
behavioral sciences, critical thinking, and information literacy. The final two categories are 
integrated throughout the curriculum by the SLAC. During the site visit, the team inquired as to the 
true level of integration of these final two general education categories and heard examples from a 
broad array of academic departments, including speech communication, religion and philosophy, 
anatomy and physiology, and architecture and construction management. Each shared their 
department's efforts to include critical thinking and information literacy in their courses and 
programs. 
In addition, representatives of the library staff shared their efforts to support the two broad general 
education categories, most notably information literacy. A library staff person shared during an open 
session how the library at the COD is organized around the liaison model of service. Each academic 
program area is assigned a specific library staff person who works directly with the faculty in that 
area not only on their academic resource needs but also in helping them design critical thinking and 
information literacy assignments and assessments for their courses. 
COD has created equity value guides that state, “Everyone in our college community has an equal 
opportunity to pursue their
 academic, personal, and professional goals.” This statement and the 
related plan were created following the addition of equity as a pillar in the institution's strategic plan. 
During the site visit, numerous examples arose from both faculty, staff, and administration regarding 
how this pillar has been implemented on campus. For example, there was a "21-Day Equity 
Challenge that promoted ideas for how to  include equity, diversity, and inclusion in all aspects of the 
institution's work. These ideas included: equity-minded syllabi, how to teach race; the "four 
connections" concept; supporting students of color; and inclusivity reading seminars. The result was 
a comprehensive approach to enhancing equity, diversity, and inclusion across campus for all levels 
of employees: faculty (both full-time and adjunct), staff, and administration.
 
During an on-campus discussion between the site visit team and faculty, the topic of the institution’s 
strategic plan goal to “create an institutional culture of student access, equity, and inclusion” was 
discussed. When asked by the team how this goal has been achieved by the campus, a student in the 
audience raised his hand and shared his personal experience. The Office of Disability Support at 
COD, the student said, went far beyond the services required by law. He said the office sees its   role as 
one of providing access to a diverse body of students inclusive of individuals like him who have 
autism. The student relayed how the staff and faculty had embraced his diversity in
 learning and 
helped him achieve a college degree.
 He also cited the Learning Commons staff and programs as 
being particularly helpful to him. A second student, who also had autism, then raised his hand and 
relayed how he had served as   an orientation leader. This opportunity allowed him to feel included in 
the campus and demonstrated, in his words, how the COD "brings people with
 disabilities and those 
without together." 
Individual students experience the concepts of diversity, equity, and inclusion through the general 
education requirement to complete at least one course in human relations and one in 
global/multicultural studies. This requirement was put in place by the faculty to  ensure students have 
a broad awareness of human and cultural diversity. Coursework in these two areas aligns with the 
general education learning outcomes in human behavior, societal knowledge, and cultural and 
historical comprehension. 

College of DuPage - Fact Check - Exported on 5/17/2022 - DRAFT - 
Page 31 
 
 
COD has a   variety of outlets for both faculty and students to showcase their creative and academic 
work. These include university publications, art exhibitions, theater and musical productions, the 
Courier student newspaper, COD in Lingua (a foreign-language journal), ESSAI Anthology of 
Academic Writing Across the Curriculum, and The Prairie Light Review (a juried liberal arts 
publication). In addition, the institution hosts a student research symposium annually that highlights 
students’ academic work such as papers, presentations, posters, artwork, and theatrical and musical 
performances. Evidence of these opportunities was included in the institution's assurance argument 
and verified through on-campus interviews with students and faculty. 
Scholarship and ongoing professional learning are built into the faculty’s workload. Achievements in 
academic research and publication can be used toward advancement in academic rank. Faculty can 
also apply for sabbatical leave to  pursue academic interests. Faculty academic work is  archived in the 
institution’s library, which seeks to  preserve and showcase scholarly, educational, and creative works 
created by the college community. One issue with opportunities such as   these for adjunct faculty is 
that they do not receive additional compensation for
 participating in these "extra" opportunities. To 
incentivize the same level of engagement among part-time faculty as that of full-time, COD would be 
well served to identify a   mechanism for compensating adjunct faculty for engaging in research and 
professional learning that honors their time commitment over and above teaching.
 
 
Interim Monitoring (if applicable)  
No Interim Monitoring Recommended. 

College of DuPage - Fact Check - Exported on 5/17/2022 - DRAFT - 
Page 32 
 
 
 
3.C - Core Component 3.C  
 
The institution has the faculty and staff needed for effective, high-quality programs and student 
services. 
1. The institution strives to  ensure that the overall composition of its   faculty and staff reflects 
human diversity as appropriate within its mission and for the constituencies it serves. 
2. The institution has sufficient numbers and continuity of faculty members to  carry out both the 
classroom and the non-classroom roles of faculty, including oversight of the curriculum and 
expectations for student performance, assessment of student learning, and establishment of 
academic credentials for instructional staff.
 
3. All instructors are appropriately qualified, including those in dual credit, contractual and 
consortial offerings. 
4. Instructors are evaluated regularly in accordance with established institutional policies and 
procedures. 
5. The institution has processes and resources for assuring that instructors are current in their 
disciplines and adept in their teaching roles; it supports their professional development. 
6. Instructors are accessible for student inquiry. 
7. Staff members providing student support services, such as tutoring, financial aid advising, 
academic advising and cocurricular activities, are appropriately qualified, trained and 
supported in their professional development.
 
 
Rating  
Met 
 
Rationale  
At the College of DuPage (COD), all hiring managers and search committee participants are required 
to complete diversity training prior to service. This fact was verified during an open session on 
criterion
 three during the site visit. The content of this training includes: how to conduct interviews, 
legally appropriate questioning of candidates, and identifying personal biases. Several of the faculty 
and staff present during the open
 session commented that screening committee members are unable 
to  gain access to candidate resumes until they have completed the required training, even if they have 
previously served on a search committee. The training is contained in a series of videos and is 
scenario-based,
 allowing committee members to see actual examples of how search committee 
members might demonstrate a bias against candidates of color. In addition to the training videos, the 
human resources office at   COD puts out a   regular newsletter on the topic for managers that provides 
ongoing information about diversity, equity, and inclusion.
 
Internal practice at COD requires that during at least two stages of the search process, at least 18% of 
full-time candidate pools identify as   diverse. This metric provides human resources staff with a   two- 
step "check-in" with search committees to ensure an
 appropriate level of candidates of color are 
progressing through the search process. Search processes that do not meet that threshold are 
evaluated for
 candidates who are not progressing and discussions with the hiring manager about the 

College of DuPage - Fact Check - Exported on 5/17/2022 - DRAFT - 
Page 33 
 
 
process used to arrive at a pool of finalists that is insufficient in candidates of color. While changes 
may or not be made to  the process for such challenged searches, it is a consistent analysis by human 
resources into the hiring and search practices of the institution. 
In fall 2021, COD had 264 full-time faculty and 957 adjunct faculty. Full-time faculty teach 
approximately 38% of all courses with adjunct faculty teaching the remaining 62%. The institution 
acknowledges this high level of adjunct faculty staffing and strives to fully integrate part-time 
teachers into its   community of scholars. This is  achieved by onboarding and training adjunct faculty 
through programs and services described in evidentiary statements contained in 3B. 
Faculty, both full-time and adjunct, have contracts that specify course assignments, workload, 
evaluation, and additional duties such as oversight of the curriculum, expectations of student 
performance, required academic credentials, assessment activities, and committee work. During the 
site visit, the team discussed these contracts and the related expectations extensively with the faculty. 
The faculty shared that the degree to  which an individual faculty member is evaluated in one or all of 
these five areas is highly customized through conversations between the faculty member and their 
program director
 or dean. Year one in this three-year cycle of faculty evaluation is dedicated to 
consultation between the faculty member and dean where an agreement on what will be evaluated is 
discussed and codified. While there is sometimes respectful disagreement, generally the faculty said 
the administration seeks to support faculty expertise as it relates to their
 teaching, advising, 
curricular, and service job components.
 
Those faculty designated as discipline or program chairs have additional responsibilities that include: 
leading the curriculum process, developing class schedules and teaching assignments, developing 
assessment plans, and other administrative duties. These extra duties are integrated into their 
evaluations by the academic deans. While the department chairs with
 whom the site visit team 
interacted shared evaluative stories similar to those of faculty, they were quick to point out the duties 
that distinguished them from teaching faculty and were part of their performance review. 
COD maintains policies that clearly define the academic qualifications of faculty. These policies 
include guidelines for
 high school instructors leading dual credit courses. The policies are in 
alignment with the Higher Learning Commission’s faculty qualification policy. During the site visit, 
a review of 17 randomly selected faculty personnel files showed no deviation from either COD or 
HLC's faculty qualification policy. Of the 17 faculty members randomly selected, six (35%) were full- 
time faculty representing disciplines ranging from accounting and horticulture to automotive 
technology and nursing. The remaining eleven (65%) were part-time adjunct faculty from disciplines 
such as   business, computer science, welding, dental hygiene, early childhood, mathematics, and 
religious studies. Six of the eleven adjunct faculty were members of the COD Adjunct Association 
and five were not. 
The Office of Human Resources maintains a master list of qualifications needed to  teach each course 
at   the institution. This list is used during the hiring process to ensure compliance with both the 
institution and HLC’s academic qualification policies. A review of that master
 list by the site visit 
team evidenced a comprehensive document that would be useful to both human resources 
professionals and faculty hiring managers alike. In addition, all faculty job descriptions set forth the 
minimum academic and/or work experience qualifications needed for the intended teaching 
assignments. A review of job descriptions contained in the randomly-pulled faculty personnel files 
showed the presence of the minimum qualifications for
 a majority of the individuals polled. 
COD maintains policies that establish a regular timeline for faculty evaluations, both full-time and 

College of DuPage - Fact Check - Exported on 5/17/2022 - DRAFT - 
Page 34 
 
 
adjunct employees. For example, the policy states, “Faculty working toward tenure may be expected 
to complete a full evaluation cycle at least once a year during their probationary period.”
 Tenured 
faculty are formally evaluated every three years. The process for evaluating faculty includes both the 
faculty member being evaluated and the evaluator, typically the program director. In year one of the 
three-year cycle, both the faculty member and their evaluator create a plan of evaluation. In the 
second year, the formal evaluation is completed, which is then updated in the third year. Faculty are 
evaluated in five different categories: teaching, advising, curriculum development, institutional 
committee work, and other relevant activities as   stated in their contract. Faculty are given the 
opportunity to provide written evidence of their
 activities in these five areas and their goals for the 
coming evaluation cycle. The evaluator, typically the program director, is actively engaged in the 
evaluation process. For
 example, one element of evaluating teaching is done through classroom 
observation. This is true regardless of the modality (face-to-face, hybrid, online, etc.). Student input 
is  considered in the evaluation process through annual student course evaluations. The site visit team 
encourages COD to create a regular process for collecting student input for all course sections that 
are useful to the institution
 beyond faculty evaluations. The opportunity to learn from students from 
each course section about their
 experience in the course can prove invaluable to both faculty leaders 
and the institution
 itself without negatively impacting its current purpose of contributing to the 
faculty evaluation process. 
COD schedules six days in the academic calendar known as   “In-Service Days” devoted solely to 
professional development. During In-Service Days, faculty attend programs specifically designed to 
enhance their teaching roles. While some of these programs are offered by current college faculty, 
many are presented by external experts. Recent In-Service Day themes include: creating a culture of 
caring, recovering our bandwidth, and critical thinking assessment and improvements. Both full-time 
and adjunct faculty are encouraged to attend In-Service Days. During a focused session on 
assessment, the idea of dedicating a portion of the next in -service day to  cocurricular assessment was 
brought up by faculty participating in that session. The site visit team believes such an institution- 
wide commitment to cocurricular assessment demonstrated by the use of an in-service day will set the 
tone for a more widespread assessment of cocurricular activities in the future. 
The institution maintains several organizational mechanisms for ensuring ongoing faculty 
professional development.
 These include a Faculty Professional Development Committee, an Office 
of Adjunct Faculty Support, and the Office of Learning Technologies. In addition, the college has 
invested in the “Cornerstone” system, which allows faculty and staff to search for and engage in on- 
demand training opportunities throughout the year. The Cornerstone system maintains a “transcript” 
of employee courses attempted and completed. Courses contained on Cornerstone include teaching 
and learning practices; equity, access, and inclusivity; and assessment practices. 
Finally, each full-time faculty member receives  up to $1,850 annually for professional development 
activities. Full-time faculty are also required to  complete six clock hours of professional development 
each year, in addition to the opportunity to apply for a one-year or one-semester sabbatical to pursue 
professional development. This very generous allocation of institutional funds facilitates the 
consistent, high-quality, ongoing professional development of faculty both to enhance their teaching 
efficacy, but also discipline-specific learning and to enhance skills in critical areas such as student 
success and assessment. 
Faculty members at   COD must maintain at least ten (10) office hours per week per their faculty 
contract. During COVID-19, an MOU modified in -person office hours to  ensure students had access 
to faculty in a manner appropriate to the modality of their coursework. Contact information and 

College of DuPage - Fact Check - Exported on 5/17/2022 - DRAFT - 
Page 35 
 
 
office hours are required to  be included in each course’s syllabus. The institution’s website also notes 
faculty office hours, phone number, and email. Faculty office hours are reviewed by the program 
director. Each full-time faculty member
 is provided with a private office for student consultation, 
while adjunct faculty have a dedicated shared space in which to meet students.
 
A    wide variety of student support services are provided at COD, including academic tutoring, mental 
health counseling, career counseling, financial aid, and cocurricular activities. Staff engaged in these 
activities are appropriately qualified, trained, and supported in their professional development. Every 
staff member can access up to $1,850 in professional development funds. During the site visit, the 
team reviewed staff credential files for individuals employed in these areas. The Office of Human 
Resources provided team members with files containing application materials, professional 
development activities, and other materials. There appeared to be a   clear connection between the 
assigned job and the staff person's credentials and professional development activities. In addition, 
the institution maintains an online database containing information on position requirements. In 
anticipation of HLC's decennial visit in six years, the institution should ensure it has clearly defined 
job descriptions, clearly defined expectations for those jobs, and a    clear connection that the individual 
filling the position is meeting those expectations. Should the institution choose to hire someone who 
does not meet those job expectations, the college should have a   specific plan of professional 
development to close that gap.
 
 
Interim Monitoring (if applicable)  
No Interim Monitoring Recommended. 

College of DuPage - Fact Check - Exported on 5/17/2022 - DRAFT - 
Page 36 
 
 
 
3.D - Core Component 3.D  
 
The institution provides support for student learning and resources for effective teaching. 
1. The institution provides student support services suited to  the needs of its   student populations. 
2. The institution provides for learning support and preparatory instruction to address the 
academic needs of its   students. It has a process for directing entering students to  courses and 
programs for which the students are adequately prepared. 
3. The institution provides academic advising suited to  its   offerings and the needs of its   students. 
4. The institution provides to students and instructors the infrastructure and resources necessary 
to  support effective teaching and learning (technological infrastructure, scientific laboratories, 
libraries, performance spaces, clinical practice sites and museum collections, as appropriate to 
the institution’s offerings). 
 
Rating  
Met 
 
Rationale  
Incoming new students to the College of DuPage (COD) participate in an orientation session that 
introduces the services available to  them and encourages them to  become actively involved with those 
opportunities. The curriculum of this program is designed to ensure first-time students receive 
information about navigating campus; interacting with faculty; accessing services such as financial 
aid, tutoring, course registration, and academic advising; using Blackboard and the online student 
portal; and study skills. 
The Student Services Center and “Campus Central” serve as   the front door of the institution and 
provide a   one-stop-shop for information about key services such as   applying for admission, 
registering for classes, accessing financial aid, navigating both the online portal and learning 
management system, testing, payment information, student records, and graduation. Assistance for 
non-English speakers and online support is also provided at   “Campus Central.” 
The institution provides the expected range of support services, including counseling; advising; 
testing; financial assistance; a    Center for Student Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion; campus activities; 
and student life. Services provided by these offices include financial literacy counseling from 
financial aid, embedded tutoring in gateway courses, study skills assessment, writing assistance, and 
a career strength finder. Staff from these offices interviewed during the site visit characterized their 
approach
 to these services as   "wrap around" and repeatedly commented on how they facilitate a 
hand-off to other
 services, not merely a referral. This means they follow up with the office to which 
they send a student in need and/or
 the office receiving the student proactively reaches out to the 
student inviting them to obtain assistance.
 
The institution maintains a “Learning Commons” where students can receive specialized academic 
support services in areas such as mathematics, reading, writing, speech, and other disciplines. The 
services in the commons are offered free of charge and provided in group or individual formats. The 

College of DuPage - Fact Check - Exported on 5/17/2022 - DRAFT - 
 
 facility contains private study rooms, cubicles, and open tables for tutoring, along with computers for 
testing and writing. Learning Commons staff regularly provide workshops on specific topics of 
interest to students needing academic support.
 Students also receive testing services to assist with 
their proper placement in math and English courses, in keeping with institutional and State of 
Illinois guidelines. 
As was described earlier, COD maintains a robust and well-stocked library to ensure student access 
to  information resources, research assistance, study space, and technology needed to be academically 
successful. A visit to the library by a   member of the site visit team revealed a modern facility that 
offers support and enhanced services such as podcast recording studios, video recording studios, and 
the ability to check out instructional materials that are identical to those found in classrooms and 
laboratories, particularly in the sciences. The COD library is open 80 hours per
 week for access by 
students who have non-traditional study schedules.
 
The institution has established four regional centers to  better serve students who cannot travel to the 
main campus. These centers are located in Addison, Carol Stream, Naperville, and Westmont. 
During a discussion of criterion three, a director of one of the regional centers spoke up to share with 
the team the extensive level to which the college goes to ensure students studying at the regional 
centers have access to the same high-quality instruction
 and education and support resources as 
students on the main Glen Ellyn campus. The director specifically cited training for staff, marketing 
of educational offerings, student life activities, welcome week activities, and wrap-around support 
services such as counseling, tutoring, advising, registration, and financial aid. The team was left with 
the very clear impression that COD is committed to ensuring alignment between instruction and 
support at   the regional centers with that found on the main campus.
 
COD also offers extensive online course offerings, particularly since the COVID-19 outbreak. 
Numerous examples were provided of how the institution ensures that online students receive the 
same quality of instruction and access to  support services as face-to -face students. For example, fully- 
remote proctoring services are available to online students taking tests in replication of the services 
offered by the main campus testing center. Mental health counseling is available online for
 digital 
students wishing to discuss their mental health with a counselor. Finally, the library uses a chat 
application to engage students online and to identify the resources they need for
 their classes. All of 
these digital services are designed to provide robust access to support for
 online students. 
COD maintains a cohort of 30 counselors in the Department of Counseling, Advising, and Transfer. 
Of the 30 counselors, one is designated specifically for students with disabilities and another solely 
for mental health. These individuals serve four roles in interacting with students: academic advising, 
mental health counseling, educational planning, and career counseling. These staff members carry 
the licensed professional counselor (LPC) certification and are classified as   faculty, though they do 
not generally teach credit-bearing courses. As it relates to academic advising, when a student 
identifies an academic path, they are handed off to a member of the faculty in the appropriate 
academic discipline. After
 this hand-off, counselors continue to provide services in the areas of 
mental health counseling, educational planning, and career counseling.
 
In addition to counselors, the college recently hired thirteen "navigators" who provide concierge 
services to at  -risk students and therefore increase their
 likelihood of success. Navigators work with 
students on issues such as organization skills, study skills, and time management. In order to qualify 
for assistance by navigators, students must meet one of the following criteria: high school grade point 
average <3.0; <18 on the ACT or <950 on the SAT; reading placement score of a 2, 3, 4, or 5; a 
GPA of 2.0-2.5 with <23 of COD credit hours; being placed on academic warning. Navigators stay
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 37 

College of DuPage - Fact Check - Exported on 5/17/2022 - DRAFT - 
Page 38 
 
 
with their assigned students longitudinally throughout their time at COD. The navigator office is 
open until 6:00 p.m. each evening for ease of access by participating students. Currently, each 
navigator
 has an assigned portfolio of 165 students (approximately 2,000 students total in the 
program). The institution expressed a desire to  add an additional 30-35 navigators to serve the entire 
degree-seeking student population of 20,000+ students. 
Through the High Learning Commission's survey of current COD students and from evidence 
collected during the site visit, it became apparent there is confusion as to the role of navigator versus 
the role of counselor. The distinction was described to the team during the site visit as, "Navigators 
focus on the skills of living while counselors focus on the analytical side of counseling."
 Even with 
this on-site clarification, confusion remains. Students who completed the HLC survey indicated they 
were unsure who to go to for academic advising: navigators, counselors, or faculty. When the site 
team reviewed the website for information on student success, the terms "navigator," "counselor," 
and "student success coach" appeared to be used interchangeably. Because counselors are classified 
as   faculty, though they do not regularly teach classes, the faculty association has become involved in 
the issue. The site visit team strongly encourages the institution
 to clarify these roles. For example, 
the college may wish
 to consider designating "counselors" as   those trained in delivering mental 
health counseling. Subsequently, individuals designated as "academic advisors" could focus on career 
and academic planning. Finally, "navigators" could focus on early alert intervention, skill 
development, and connection to wrap-around services. While each
 of these three areas is critical to 
student success, a lack of clarity among students, faculty, and staff is not advancing the institution's 
goal of improving student success. Ensuring clarity through its inward communication and outward- 
facing materials will assist in this effort. 
During the site visit, the team split up into three groups and inspected as many facilities as   possible 
on this very large campus. Buildings and resources visited included: the automotive repair
 lab, the 
culinary and hospitality labs, performing arts spaces, general classrooms, the library, science labs, 
faculty offices, the "navigator" office, and the technology center. The site visit team observed 
infrastructure and resources required to more than adequately serve the teaching and learning needs 
of faculty and students. The facilities and educational resources are well maintained, which is a 
testament to  the physical plant staff given COD has over two million square feet of space under roof. 
 
Interim Monitoring (if applicable)  
No Interim Monitoring Recommended. 

College of DuPage - Fact Check - Exported on 5/17/2022 - DRAFT - 
Page 39 
 
 
 
3.S -   Criterion 3 - Summary  
 
The institution provides quality education, wherever and however its   offerings are delivered. 
 
Rationale  
The College of DuPage (COD) offers academic programs and services that are appropriate to an 
institution of higher
 education offering associate degrees and certificates. Through the assurance 
argument and during the site visit,
 the team obtained numerous examples of how the institution 
develops, tracks, and utilizes student learning outcomes at both the course, program, and institution 
level to enhance the quality of the education offered to COD students. These learning outcomes are 
consistent across all    modes of delivery at   COD: face-to-face, online asynchronous, online 
synchronous, hybrid, and dual credit.
 
The college has developed a    general education curriculum organized around seven themes and 
designed to provide all    students with a   base of knowledge required to be successful in today's career 
environment. The general education or "core" curriculum is  grounded in the institution's mission and 
clearly supports its associate degree educational offerings. The maintenance of the general education 
curriculum is divided between the Student Learning and Assessment Committee and appropriate 
academic programs and faculty.
 
Included in the general education curriculum and embedded throughout the institution's programs 
and services is a   commitment to diversity, equity, and inclusion. This commitment included two 
courses that all students must take before being awarded an associate’s degree.
 
While COD has a contingent of full-time faculty in most program areas, the institution relies heavily 
on adjunct faculty. A review of faculty files during the site visit reveals that faculty are appropriately 
qualified and credentialed for their teaching assignments. This appears to be true for full-time, 
adjunct, online, and dual credit faculty. Because over
 sixty percent of faculty are adjuncts, the 
institution
 has invested an enormous amount of time and resources into ensuring the quality of 
adjunct instruction and the integration of adjunct faculty into the life of the college. All faculty, full- 
time and adjunct, are evaluated on a regular schedule in a manner that honors both the role of faculty 
(teaching, advising, curriculum development, and committee work) as   well as individualized 
initiatives based on each faculty member's interests and assignments. Faculty are provided with 
generous financial and time benefits to pursue professional development both in their
 discipline and 
in areas of interest such as advising, teaching, and assessment. College of DuPage faculty have 
regular
 office hours that facilitate access by students regardless of the mode of instruction. The 
qualifications and support for
 professional development among staff mirrors that of faculty. 
Repeatedly, the site visit team heard faculty, staff, and administrators speak of the intense focus the 
institution has on student success. COD has invested an enormous amount of resources into this 
effort and has created a "wrap-around" cohort of support programs that have positively impacted 
retention and completion. These include academic advising, concierge navigation services, financial 
aid, mental health counseling, career counseling, remedial math and English assistance, embedded 
and on-demand tutoring, and many others. These services are offered in modern, well-maintained 
facilities containing an abundance of educational resources more than appropriate to facilitate high- 
quality teaching and learning at   an associate's degree-granting college. 

College of DuPage - Fact Check - Exported on 5/17/2022 - DRAFT - 
Page 40 
 
 
 
4 - Teaching and Learning: Evaluation and Improvement 
 
The institution demonstrates responsibility for the quality of its educational programs, learning 
environments and support services, and it  evaluates their effectiveness for student learning through 
processes designed to promote continuous improvement. 
 
4.A -   Core Component 4.A 
 
The institution ensures the quality of its   educational offerings. 
1. The institution maintains a practice of regular program reviews and acts upon the findings. 
2. The institution evaluates all    the credit that it   transcripts, including what it awards for 
experiential learning or other forms of prior learning, or relies on the evaluation of responsible 
third parties. 
3. The institution has policies that ensure the quality of the credit it accepts in transfer. 
4. The institution maintains and exercises authority over the prerequisites for courses, rigor of 
courses, expectations for student learning, access to learning resources, and faculty 
qualifications for all its programs, including dual credit programs. It ensures that its dual credit 
courses or programs for high school students are equivalent in learning outcomes and levels of 
achievement to its higher education curriculum.
 
5. The institution maintains specialized accreditation for its programs as appropriate to its 
educational purposes. 
6. The institution evaluates the success of its graduates. The institution ensures that the 
credentials it  represents as preparation for advanced study or employment accomplish these 
purposes. For all    programs, the institution looks to indicators it deems appropriate to its 
mission. 
 
Rating 
 
Met 
 
Rationale 
 
As detailed in the Assurance Argument and affirmed during the site visit in open forums on criterion 
3   and criterion 4, the College of DuPage (COD) utilizes a rigorous, systematic program review 
process for
 all of its academic programs. Expanding on the Illinois Community College Board 
(ICCB) requirements, the process includes a needs analysis as   well as a review of the cost- 
effectiveness, quality, action planning, and a look at annual updates made throughout the five-year 
cycle. The program review process is supported by COD-led workshops to assist in data analysis as 
well as understanding the process itself. The program review process is also periodically reviewed to 
inform the college’s continuous improvement efforts and to  incorporate stakeholder feedback. Efforts 
are being made to  streamline the process by providing an online system to collect and house the data 
and artifacts applicable to the program review process. 

College of DuPage - Fact Check - Exported on 5/17/2022 - DRAFT - 
Page 41 
 
 
COD has established procedures, policies, and personnel designated to  evaluate all transcripted credit 
including credit awarded for military service, experiential learning, prior learning, Advanced 
Placement, and College Level Examination Program subject examinations. In addition, students may 
demonstrate proficiency in a foreign language by earning the Illinois State Seal of Biliteracy or 
Biliteracy Commendation through their high school.
 
COD assures the quality of the credit it accepts in transfer through the Office of Student Records, 
which evaluates official transcripts following the college’s Transfer Evaluation Policy. Additionally, 
COD offers 3+1 and 2+2 transfer pathway programs as   well as reverse transfer agreements with 
several four-year institutions allowing students who transfer to a    four-year institution before earning 
their associate’s degree to earn their associate’s while attending their selected four-year institution. 
Full authority over course prerequisites, the quality and rigor of courses, programs, and expectations 
for student learning, access to  learning resources, and faculty qualifications are maintained by COD. 
This includes all dual credit course offerings and instructors. COD adheres to ICCB Administrative 
Rule Section 1501.507(b)11 and the Dual Credit Quality Act to ensure parity between its dual credit 
courses/faculty and its traditional college offerings. Curricular decisions including the development 
of new programs are made through a shared governance process. 
College of DuPage maintains specialized accreditation from discipline-specific credentialing 
organizations where appropriate. Twenty programs hold external programmatic accreditation and 
these are published in the college’s catalog as   well as on the college’s website. The anesthesia 
technology program was placed on probation in 2021 and, in response, will be discontinued as of 
August 2022. 
As a community partner, COD values its commitment to the success of its graduates. Using graduate 
surveys and employer surveys, COD provides student exit data utilized in  the program review process 
as   well as its data dashboards to ensure program relevancy and outcome alignment. The most recent 
survey results from FY 2019-20 indicate that 80% of respondents felt COD prepared them for
 their 
continued education and 76% were very satisfied with their
 experience at COD. 
 
Interim Monitoring (if applicable)  
No Interim Monitoring Recommended. 

College of DuPage - Fact Check - Exported on 5/17/2022 - DRAFT - 
Page 42 
 
 
 
4.B - Core Component 4.B  
 
The institution engages in ongoing assessment of student learning as part of its   commitment to the 
educational outcomes of its students. 
1. The institution has effective processes for assessment of student learning and for achievement 
of learning goals in academic and cocurricular offerings. 
2. The institution uses the information gained from assessment to  improve student learning. 
3. The institution’s processes and methodologies to  assess student learning reflect good practice, 
including the substantial participation of faculty, instructional and other relevant staff 
members. 
 
Rating  
Met 
 
Rationale  
College of DuPage (COD) demonstrated well-defined processes for assessing programmatic student 
learning for general education, technical disciplines, and cocurricular activities in its assurance 
argument that were confirmed through various open forums and focus area sessions during the site 
visit. In 2019, COD created an Assessment Office and hired an Assessment of Student Learning 
Outcomes Director. Assessment Office personnel assist in  managing the communication, processes, 
and training related to general education, technical discipline, and cocurricular assessment. The 
Student
 Learning and Assessment Committee (SLAC)—comprised of a broad spectrum of faculty 
across divisions, adjunct faculty, and representatives from the Assessment/Student Success and 
Program Review offices—leads the general education assessment process. Additional stakeholders 
are included in SLAC’s subcommittees, which broadens the oversight of and participation in 
assessment-specific activities.
 
In response to  HLC’s recommendation to COD to  increase its   focus on general education assessment, 
the college refined its approach to focus on seven student learning outcomes: critical thinking, 
information literacy, cultural and historical comprehension (humanities and fine arts), expression 
and exchange of ideas (communication), human behavior
 and societal knowledge (social and 
behavioral sciences), quantitative reasoning (mathematics), and scientific reasoning (physical and 
life sciences). While critical thinking and information literacy span the spectrum of all general 
education courses, the remaining five areas are aligned with discipline-specific coursework. COD’s 
General Education Assessment Plan functions in three phases: collect, assess and plan 
improvements, and improve. The SLAC members lead the critical thinking and information literacy 
assessments while subcommittees lead the five discipline-specific assessment efforts. The college has 
assessed nearly 4000 student artifacts through its process since its inception in 2019. While the 
calibration and review of such a   large number
 of artifacts may appear cumbersome, the process was 
identified by attendees of several open
 forums and focus area participants as   being the most 
rewarding and impactful aspect of the assessment plan.
 
In response to  HLC’s recommendation to  COD to  provide evidence of ongoing improvements of 

College of DuPage - Fact Check - Exported on 5/17/2022 - DRAFT - 
Page 43 
 
 
cocurricular assessment efforts, SLAC formed a   Cocurricular Assessment Committee in 2020. The 
Cocurricular Assessment Committee in conjunction with SLAC and Student Affairs leadership 
developed a definition of cocurricular programming and activities at the college: “Learning activities, 
programs, and experiences that align with and reinforce the formal curriculum.” The Cocurricular 
Assessment Committee supported by the Assessment Office developed targeted professional 
development opportunities to assist in differentiating between learning and support outcomes. In 
addition, cocurricular-specific data was incorporated into the program review process where 
appropriate. COD’s cocurricular assessment aligns with its seven general education assessment 
outcomes. During the site visit’s focus area meeting, several salient examples were provided 
demonstrating the use of cocurricular
 assessment data to refine cocurricular programming and 
activities specifically as   they related to shifting from face-to-face to virtual interactions during the 
pandemic. COD plans to expand its cocurricular
 assessment efforts as   the college regains its 
momentum post-pandemic including a   Cocurricular Assessment Poster Session.
 
 
Interim Monitoring (if applicable)  
No Interim Monitoring Recommended. 

College of DuPage - Fact Check - Exported on 5/17/2022 - DRAFT - 
Page 44 
 
 
 
4.C - Core Component 4.C  
 
The institution pursues educational improvement through goals and strategies that improve retention, 
persistence and completion rates in its  degree and certificate programs. 
1. The institution has defined goals for student retention, persistence and completion that are 
ambitious, attainable and appropriate to its mission, student populations and educational 
offerings. 
2. The institution collects and analyzes information on student retention, persistence and 
completion of its  programs. 
3. The institution uses information on student retention, persistence and completion of programs 
to make improvements as warranted by the data. 
4. The institution’s processes and methodologies for collecting and analyzing information on 
student retention, persistence and completion of programs reflect good practice. (Institutions 
are not required to  use IPEDS definitions in their determination of persistence or completion 
rates. Institutions are encouraged to choose measures that are suitable to their student 
populations, but institutions are accountable for
 the validity of their measures.) 
 
Rating  
Met 
 
Rationale  
According to its assurance argument, the College of DuPage (COD) defines its goals for student 
retention, persistence, and completion broadly through its Strategic Long-Range Plan (SLRP) and 
more specifically through its Annual Plan with the Key Performance Indicator
 (KPI) of 
demonstrating an “increase of 1% for 3-year completion rates for full and part-time s tudents” 
annually. The college also set goals (increase by 4%) for
 improving completion rates for Black, 
Latinx, and under-resourced (Pell-eligible) students in order
 to address the equity gap. To support 
these efforts, COD has a broad array of student support services designed to assist in increasing 
student success. During the site visit, criterion 4 forum participants shared examples of such support 
including a contingent of Navigators whose job it  is  to  coach students in college success skills as well 
as   connect students to resources, such as   a   Center for Student Success. 
COD’s institutional priority of Student Success is  demonstrated through its SLRP, which aligns with 
its Illinois Equity in Attainment Initiative Equity Plan. COD utilizes the data it collects on student 
retention, persistence, and completion
 of programs to identify opportunities of strategies aimed at 
improving student success. One example is the implementation of the Guided Pathways model, 
which led to the development and posting of program completion maps as   well as program transfer 
maps. COD uses student success metrics dashboards including AACC Pathways metrics (early 
momentum, persistence, and completion), which disaggregate data in relation to race/ethnicity, 
gender, age, full or part-time status, developmental status, and program. Initiatives such as   the 
English Accelerated Learning Program and Transitions Math are examples of data-driven 
improvements aimed at positively impacting student success through targeted retention, persistence, 

College of DuPage - Fact Check - Exported on 5/17/2022 - DRAFT - 
Page 45 
 
 
and completion efforts. 
COD has developed a   framework of processes and methodologies for collecting and analyzing data 
on student retention, persistence, and completion that reflects good practice. Internal transparency of 
these data within appropriate boundaries of integrity and confidentiality have been well-documented 
and were confirmed by both the SLAC and Student Services personnel during the site visit. 
 
Interim Monitoring (if applicable)  
No Interim Monitoring Recommended. 

College of DuPage - Fact Check - Exported on 5/17/2022 - DRAFT - 
Page 46 
 
 
 
4.S -   Criterion 4 - Summary  
 
The institution demonstrates responsibility for the quality of its educational programs, learning 
environments and support services, and it  evaluates their effectiveness for student learning through 
processes designed to promote continuous improvement. 
 
Rationale  
The assurance argument, supported by the site visit, presented clear evidence that the College of 
DuPage maintains accountability for
 the quality of its educational programs and demonstrates 
dedication to the process of continuous improvement through the documented evaluation of student 
learning – both curricular and cocurricular. The college is encouraged to document the 
implementation of assessment data collection and analysis processes and procedures it   has recently 
developed as they are implemented and to periodically evaluate those processes to  ensure validity and 
reliability. 

College of DuPage - Fact Check - Exported on 5/17/2022 - DRAFT - 
Page 47 
 
 
 
5 - Institutional Effectiveness, Resources and Planning 
 
The institution’s resources, structures, processes and planning are sufficient to fulfill its mission, 
improve the quality of its   educational offerings, and respond to  future challenges and opportunities. 
 
5.A -   Core Component 5.A 
 
Through its administrative structures and collaborative processes, the institution’s leadership 
demonstrates that it   is effective and enables the institution to fulfill its   mission. 
1. Shared governance at the institution engages its internal constituencies—including its 
governing board, administration, faculty, staff and students—through planning, policies and 
procedures. 
2. The institution’s administration uses data to reach informed decisions in the best interests of 
the institution and its constituents. 
3. The institution’s administration ensures that faculty and, when appropriate, staff and students 
are involved in setting academic requirements, policy and processes through effective 
collaborative structures. 
 
Rating 
 
Met 
 
Rationale 
 
The College of DuPage (COD) demonstrates a   significant level of shared governance as 
demonstrated to  the review team during the visit. The Board of Trustees discussed the different ways 
they are engaged with the shared governance elements of the campus; for instance, the development 
of the strategic plan, the presidential search, oversight of the administration, and Board members 
serving as   liaisons on specific committees at the college.
 
Administration, faculty, staff, and students are involved with shared governance through their active 
participation on committees throughout the college. The Shared Governance Council is central to this 
participation. All board policies and administrative procedures go through the Shared Governance 
Council, which includes members from students, faculty, and staff governing committees. Shared 
Governance Council members report back to the broader meetings of their governance groups. These 
focused governing bodies are responsible for disseminating information occurring at the institutional 
level to front-line employees and students. 
Another example of shared governance at COD was through the process of writing the strategic plan. 
The Strategic Planning Committee brought input from the college constituencies and from outside 
the campus to address both
 the mission, vision, and guiding strategic initiatives of the college. The 
Strategic Planning Committee started with
 a group of 25-30 people having discussions about what 
initiatives needed to be included in the plan. External groups also participated through a SWOT
 

College of DuPage - Fact Check - Exported on 5/17/2022 - DRAFT - 
Page 48 
 
 
analysis that informed the plan. The Board of Trustees added an emphasis on Diversity, Equity, and 
Inclusion to the plan. The strategic planning committee communicated with the college campus 
through the website, publications, and an internal intranet system.
 
COD gave evidence that the college uses data to reach informed decisions in the best interests of the 
institution and its   constituents. The college maintains a   research and planning portal where all 
official research is posted for
 access by faculty and staff. All institution-wide statistics are housed 
there along with dashboards that are based on standard reports. The site team heard praise from the 
departments on how helpful these data are for the review of programs, developing specialized 
accreditation arguments, and generally making decisions for
 the college. Some examples of these 
decisions using data include: 
COD created the “attrition funnel” to better understand data on students who do not persist. 
Any request for operational funds or an additional position must include supporting data to 
justify the request. 
Reviewing students who at some point had performance-related flags and comparing them to 
the general population as a way of developing programs to assist students. 
SOAP data allowed the college to  request technology for the classroom that has positively 
impacted student success. 
Phi Theta Kappa conducted a survey of students related to  food insecurity. Using the data 
collected, they developed a   food pantry that addresses food insecurity and equity issues. 
It is clear from the assurance argument and reinforced by the site visit that the college’s 
administration, faculty, staff, and students are involved in setting academic requirements, policies, 
and processes. The faculty are responsible for
 developing, evaluating, and updating all of the 
institution’s educational programs. They work with the administration to update the curriculum and 
oversee changes and development in the courses and programs. 
 
Interim Monitoring (if applicable)  
No Interim Monitoring Recommended. 

College of DuPage - Fact Check - Exported on 5/17/2022 - DRAFT - 
Page 49 
 
 
 
5.B - Core Component 5.B  
 
The institution’s resource base supports its   educational offerings and its plans for maintaining and 
strengthening their quality in the future. 
1. The institution has qualified and trained operational staff and infrastructure sufficient to 
support its operations wherever and however programs are delivered. 
2. The goals incorporated into the mission and any related statements are realistic in light of the 
institution’s organization, resources and opportunities. 
3. The institution has a    well-developed process in place for budgeting and for monitoring its 
finances. 
4. The institution’s fiscal allocations ensure that its   educational purposes are achieved. 
 
Rating  
Met 
 
Rationale  
COD has qualified and trained staff, and it   demonstrates an extraordinary commitment to 
preparedness by allotting $1850 per employee per year for professional development. This funding 
helps ensure that employees stay qualified in their
 areas. The site team heard examples of different 
ways employees use their professional development funds from new certifications to pursuing a 
master’s degree. The use of professional development funds must be approved by a    supervisor and an 
administrator. 
Other avenues for professional development exist throughout the college. The Employee 
Development Center provides workshops and playlists for various training on campus. Departments 
can also add line items in their budget for professional development needs if  the individual employee 
funds are already allocated or if there is  a need for department-level training. This can cover travel or 
bringing in a consultant/speaker. Employees can upload professional development achievements and 
certifications into the learning management system to create an informal transcript of training 
received. This action provides evidence of ongoing professional development and qualifications.
 
Physical tours of the COD campus confirmed the infrastructure is sufficient to support its operations 
wherever and however programs are delivered. Laboratories for hands-on class activities were 
available in many departments, including health care, welding, culinary, and much more. The 
classrooms were in good condition creating a comfortable environment. Students had access to 
several computer
 labs in each building. The library and learning commons provide students with 
access to not only books, but rooms to work on podcasts, record videos, and check out models for 
anatomy class. There are also several study rooms that can be checked out by individuals or groups to 
promote a   good study environment. These study rooms are equipped with technology, whiteboards, 
and other tools to assist students.
 
Evidence that the college’s goals are incorporated into the mission was apparent in the discussion of 
the strategic planning process. Presentations, discussions, and debates on what should be included in
 

College of DuPage - Fact Check - Exported on 5/17/2022 - DRAFT - 
Page 50 
 
 
the college’s plan happened throughout the process. Data used to  support ideas and the needs of COD 
led to active discussions. Committee members were responsible to report back to their constituency 
groups. Presentations were made at the Board of Trustees, administrator-level, and manager-level 
meetings. Communication went back and forth at given points in the development process. By the 
end of the process, everyone came together
 to agree on four fundamental ideas, referred to as   the 
pillars. It is clear
 from conversations during open forums that college constituents felt heard and are 
proud of COD’s strategic pillars.
 
The annual evaluation process includes the college’s goals. During this annual process, every 
employee sets their individual goals to  align with the strategic plan. All of these goals are developed 
with their supervisors and are realistic for their area on campus. 
COD’s annual budget process begins with a baseline budget that is determined using key 
assumptions to anticipate revenues and expenditures.
 If   a budgetary gap exists, they try to close that 
gap by reviewing the college’s priorities according to  the strategic plan. Assumptions are shared with 
budget officers who work with cabinet members to develop their budgets based on action plans for 
each of their departments. Budget officers help the departments meet their goals. Budget officers and 
budget committee members meet throughout the year to review the budget as   the year progresses. 
COD uses Ellucian Colleague for managing the budget and the reporting. All authorized budget 
users can log into the portal to see the budgets for the departments they manage. Evidence that the 
budgets are monitored using several checks and balances exists throughout the college’s processes. 
The budget officers have access to  the budgets and can see any actual expenses, encumbrances, and 
remaining balance. This allows them to determine if the budget is on track or not. The software 
allows officers to make notes. The college also prepares a    monthly budget report for
 the Board of 
Trustees with year-to -date expenses versus projections, as well as comparisons to  the previous year. 
The budget office reports forecasted data and actuals to the college president. 
If a budget manager overspends, a “funds availability check” will prevent purchase orders from that 
specific fund. In this situation, the budget manager can request a budget transfer. A budget transfer 
requires authorization to move funds. Budget transfers have to be approved by each supervisor
 up to 
the cabinet level. The budget office reviews the transfer, and the controller
 and the president must 
approve it before funds are transferred. All budget transfers are made available in the budget report to 
the Board of Trustees. 
 
Interim Monitoring (if applicable)  
No Interim Monitoring Recommended. 

College of DuPage - Fact Check - Exported on 5/17/2022 - DRAFT - 
Page 51 
 
 
 
5.C - Core Component 5.C  
 
The institution engages in systematic and integrated planning and improvement. 
1. The institution allocates its   resources in alignment with its mission and priorities, including, as 
applicable, its comprehensive research enterprise, associated institutes and affiliated centers. 
2. The institution links its   processes for assessment of student learning, evaluation of operations, 
planning and budgeting. 
3. The planning process encompasses the institution as a whole and considers the perspectives of 
internal and external constituent groups. 
4. The institution plans on the basis of a sound understanding of its   current capacity, including 
fluctuations in the institution’s sources of revenue and enrollment. 
5. Institutional planning anticipates evolving external factors, such as technology advancements, 
demographic shifts, globalization, the economy and state support. 
6. The institution implements its   plans to  systematically improve its   operations and student 
outcomes. 
 
Rating  
Met 
 
Rationale  
The College of DuPage (COD) provided evidence during the site visit of several ways that the college 
allocates its resources in alignment with its mission and priorities. This was specifically evident in 
the process that the college uses to tie their
 Strategic Long-Range Plan (SLRP) to their budgeting 
process. All budget requests must describe how resources will be used and must be specifically tied to 
one of the four pillars of the strategic plan. Budget officers work with the cabinet members to  develop 
a   plan based on the SLRP to meet the action goals of the college. 
For example, the funding of more “Navigators” to assist students with non-academic matters is one 
area that has been identified as a    college priority. To meet the student body's needs, COD is  working 
to increase the number of navigator positions from 14 to 45. This plan is clearly tied to the Student 
Success pillar of the SLRP. 
The COD Budget Office begins the annual budget process with a baseline budget that is determined 
using key assumptions to anticipate our revenues and expenditures. They also use a five-year 
forecasting process to identify future needs. The campus budget committee is provided with 
information on enrollment trends along with the five-year
 plan to determine the amount of tuition 
revenue the college can expect for the upcoming fiscal years. When a gap in the budget is  projected, 
the budget office and budget committee work to close the gap by reviewing and prioritizing the 
college goals. The Board of Trustees has final budget approval.
 
The planning process for the strategic plan and the annual budget is made up of internal and external 
constituent groups. This involves representatives from the faculty and staff committees on campus, 
administration,
 and the Board of Trustees. COD uses the SLRP to guide the college in operating 

College of DuPage - Fact Check - Exported on 5/17/2022 - DRAFT - 
Page 52 
 
 
decisions. The SLRP and the budget are reviewed on a quarterly basis by the Cabinet to keep COD on 
track for achieving each strategy. 
COD also uses an environmental scan for budgeting and planning purposes. This scan looks at the 
probability of change for the next 3-5 years to  help COD plan for the future. The environmental scan 
is used in collaboration with the five-year Facility Master Plan to outline capital needs on the COD 
campus. 
 
Interim Monitoring (if applicable)  
No Interim Monitoring Recommended. 

College of DuPage - Fact Check - Exported on 5/17/2022 - DRAFT - 
Page 53 
 
 
 
5.S -   Criterion 5 - Summary  
 
The institution’s resources, structures, processes and planning are sufficient to fulfill its mission, 
improve the quality of its   educational offerings, and respond to  future challenges and opportunities. 
 
Rationale  
The College of DuPage demonstrated in their assurance argument and during the site visit that they 
have the resources, structure, and employees to fulfill their mission. The college’s budgeting and 
planning processes include employees throughout the institution, administration, and Board of 
Trustees. Each level of campus constituents expressed an understanding of the planning and 
budgeting processes,
 especially how these processes are linked to the four pillars of the Strategic 
Long-Range Plan. The process to support long-term planning with data tracking was also evident 
throughout the visit. 

College of DuPage - Fact Check - Exported on 5/17/2022 - DRAFT - 
Page 54 
 
 
 
FC -   Federal Compliance 
 
 
Rating 
 
Does not require monitoring 
 
Federal Compliance Filing Form 
 
FedCompFiling_2020_FRM_(2).from_SAdocx 
 
Rationale 
 
Federal Compliance Rationale Template 
Instructions: When an evaluation that includes a    Federal Compliance Review is  released to  the peer 
review team in the Assurance System, copy and paste the text below into the Rationale section of the 
Federal Compliance tab. 
 
 
1. ASSIGNMENT OF CREDITS, PROGRAM LENGTH AND TUITION 
Conclusion (Choose one of the following statements and delete the other two.): 
The institution meets HLC’s requirements.
 
Rationale: 
The College of DuPage, in its Policy Manual (Academic Affairs Policy No. 6.02), outlines the 
general expectations for compliance with definitions for
 credit hours assigned to coursework, 
specifically stating that the "...College will equate its learning experiences with semester credit hours 
commensurate with common practices in higher education for similar programs and consistent with 
the definition of “Credit Hour” under the relevant federal regulations. The College will establish and 
maintain articulated program lengths for each program it offers as measured by Credit Hour. In no 
event will the College set requirements inconsistent with the definitions of “Associate Degree” and 
“Certificate” set by the ICCB." [ICCB=Illinois Community College Board].
 The same policy 
document notes that "The College’s program costs, including tuition and fees, length and objectives 
will be commensurate with common practices in higher education unless otherwise justified. It is the 
College’s policy to reasonably assure that information regarding its program costs, length, and 
objectives are fair, accurate, complete, and readily available to students and consumers."
 The 
College cites the ICCB as   providing primary guidance on
 credit hours assigned based on class days. 
After reviewing the ICCB's "Program Approval Manual" and the "System Rules Manual" it   was 
confirmed that the baseline credit hour
 for the College of DuPage is 750 minutes of class time per 
credit hour. The College outlined that the appropriate contact time is  confirmed for coursework three 
times by the scheduling staff (6 months prior to term start, 3-4 months prior to term start, and two 

College of DuPage - Fact Check - Exported on 5/17/2022 - DRAFT - 
Page 55 
 
 
weeks prior to the start of a term); the college has procedures for ensuring appropriate contact hours 
due to normal year-to-year calendar fluctuations in semester length. 
Syllabi from past semesters were reviewed across a range of disciplines (Accounting, Anatomy, 
Health Sciences, and Microbiology) instructors, semester lengths, and instructional modalities. All 
seemed to conform to the standards of credit hour assignment. 
2. INSTITUTIONAL RECORDS OF STUDENT COMPLAINTS 
Conclusion (Choose one of the following statements and delete the other two.): 
The institution meets HLC’s requirements. 
Rationale: 
The policy manual for the College of DuPage (Section 5: Student Affairs) was reviewed. Section 
5.19 outlines that the Assistant Provost of Student Affairs (and other officers) are to prescribe and 
implement Academic Grievance Processes. The Code of Academic Conduct (labeled Procedure No. 
20-41) also outlines appeal processes and other avenues for students to  address academic complaints. 
Online resources were also reviewed. College of DuPage has an online Student Complaint Process 
(https://cod.edu/student_life/dean-of-students/student-complaint-process.aspx) and from that page, 
students can also find relevant links to the State of Illinois and HLC sites. That page also has links 
to information relevant to the Student Code of Conduct and other resources.
 The online complaint 
process outlines a procedure in which the Dean of Student Affairs will reply to  the complaint within 
five days. 
3. PUBLICATION OF TRANSFER POLICIES 
Conclusion (Choose one of the following statements and delete the other two.): 
The institution meets HLC’s requirements. 
Rationale: 
The College of DuPage's transfer policies were reviewed by surveying the publicly available web 
pages provided on the Federal Compliance Form.
 Typical guidance is  provided to  students (submit a 
transcript, meet with advisor); there appears to be a more flexible process for summer-only students 
taking a class or two to transfer back to their home institution.
 The College of DuPage outlines the 
process for Transcript Evaluation (https://cod.edu/registration/records/trans_eval.aspx), including 
what grades are accepted for transfer and graduation requirements (GPA and Credit Hours). 
Additional details are provided in a PDF linked to that page. College of DuPage also provides a 
transfer-destination web page that provides students with links and information to "popular
 transfer 
destinations," both in-state and out-of-state.
 Under the various college links on that page 2+2/3+1 
programs that the transfer-destination institutions offer with the College of DuPage. A link from that 
page also takes students to further resources, including Transferology. 
4. PRACTICES FOR VERIFICATION OF STUDENT IDENTITY 
Conclusion (Choose one of the following statements and delete the other two.): 
The institution meets HLC’s requirements. 

College of DuPage - Fact Check - Exported on 5/17/2022 - DRAFT - 
Page 56 
 
 
Rationale: 
The College of DuPage uses a typical approach to verifying student identity: a student ID 
number/password linked to a verified email account. A technology fee had historically been used to 
cover costs associated with distance learning (and communicated via 
https://www.cod.edu/costs/tuition/); the fee has been waived because of the COVID-19 pandemic. 
 
 
5. PUBLICATION OF STUDENT OUTCOME DATA 
Conclusion (Choose one of the following statements and delete the other two.): 
The institution meets HLC’s requirements. 
Rationale: 
The College of DuPage publishes a PDF of Student Outcome Data 
(https://www.cod.edu/about/administration/consumer_legal_information/pdf/completion- 
retention.pdf) via its Student Right-To-Know webpage 
(https://www.cod.edu/about/administration/consumer_legal_information/know.aspx). 
6. STANDING WITH STATE AND OTHER ACCREDITING AGENCIES 
Conclusion (Choose one of the following statements and delete the other two.): 
The institution meets HLC’s requirements
 
Rationale: 
The College of DuPage lists Programmatic Accreditation on its website 
(https://www.cod.edu/about/accreditation/programatic_accreditation.aspx), including HLC 
Accreditation. The College of DuPage indicates, via its website, the probationary status of its 
Anesthesia Technology program via the accreditation page and on its Anesthesia Technology page 
(https://www.cod.edu/academics/programs/anesthesia_technology/); COD has decided to  close this 
program and is in the process of teach-out of the remaining students. 
 
 
 
 
APPENDIX A: TITLE IV PROGRAM RESPONSIBILITIES 
Complete this section only if the institution has submitted an Appendix A. Review any negative 
actions taken against the institution and identify any implications for
 the institution’s compliance 
with the Criteria for Accreditation or other HLC requirements. Provide a detailed rationale for any 
Core Components identified as   Met with Concerns or Not Met. 
Rationale: Appendix A was in the materials submitted. 

College of DuPage - Fact Check - Exported on 5/17/2022 - DRAFT - 
Page 57 
 
 
Interim Monitoring (if applicable)  
No Interim Monitoring Recommended. 

College of DuPage - Fact Check - Exported on 5/17/2022 - DRAFT - 
Page 58 
 
 
 
Review Dashboard  
 
 
Number Title Rating 
1 Mission 
 
1.A Core Component 1.A Met 
1.B Core Component 1.B Met 
1.C Core Component 1.C Met 
1.S Criterion 1 - Summary 
 
2 Integrity: Ethical and Responsible Conduct 
 
2.A Core Component 2.A Met 
2.B Core Component 2.B Met 
2.C Core Component 2.C Met 
2.D Core Component 2.D Met 
2.E Core Component 2.E Met 
2.S Criterion 2 - Summary 
 
3 Teaching and Learning: Quality, Resources and Support 
 
3.A Core Component 3.A Met 
3.B Core Component 3.B Met 
3.C 
Core Component 3.C 
Met 
3.D Core Component 3.D Met 
3.S Criterion 3 - Summary 
 
4 Teaching and Learning: Evaluation and Improvement 
 
4.A Core Component 4.A Met 
4.B Core Component 4.B Met 
4.C Core Component 4.C Met 
4.S Criterion 4 - Summary 
 
5 Institutional Effectiveness, Resources and Planning 
 
5.A Core Component 5.A Met 
5.B Core Component 5.B Met 
5.C Core Component 5.C Met 
5.S Criterion 5 - Summary 
 
FC Federal Compliance Does not require monitoring 

College of DuPage - Fact Check - Exported on 5/17/2022 - DRAFT - 
Page 59 
 
 
 
Review Summary  
 
Conclusion  
Based on clear and comprehensive evidence provided through the Assurance Argument and during the visit, the 
peer review team wholeheartedly recommends Reaffirmation. 
College of DuPage (COD) clearly strives to embody its stated mission. The college values have been updated to 
include Integrity, Honesty, Respect, Responsibility, and Equity. College leadership has made great strides in 
ensuring its practices reflect these values across its   operations. Included in the general education curriculum and 
embedded throughout the institution's programs and services is  a    commitment to  diversity, equity, and inclusion.
 
COD operates in accordance with Illinois state law. Evidence indicates that the Board of Trustees is responsible for 
considering and adopting the mission, vision, and philosophy of the college. The Board engages the community and 
campus constituencies as it reexamines the college’s position through the development of the Strategic Long-Range 
Plan (SLRP). 
Evidence from the visit demonstrates that COD supports the claims it makes about it the educational experience 
students will receive. COD presents itself clearly and completely to  its   students and to  the public through a robust 
website, in publications, and in the data it shares with various constituencies of the campus. In addition, evidence 
found in college policy and affirmed in a visit with the Board of Trustees shows a   clear commitment to 
understanding the Board’s responsibilities to the college and to the campus.
 
While the current Board may be cautious in its approach to enduring ethical conduct, the future composition of the 
board is unknown. Thus, the college may consider more clearly institutionalizing means to ensure the continued 
oversight of the board in a way to  prevent any conflicts of interest. This may include not just recusal from a vote but 
also recusal from any discussion when a conflict arises. In addition, it is apparent that the workload commitment of 
the Board of Trustees is extremely high, which may result in a loss of interest in service to COD in the future. The 
college leadership and Board members should be mindful of this strain and consider
 what truly needs Board 
approval or attention and what does not.
 
The college promotes its effort to institute the Guided Pathways initiative as   a means of ensuring that students are 
transferring to  four-year institutions without unnecessary credit, but the large number and variety of course offerings 
would appear to run contrary to that effort. While it is commendable that the faculty are making efforts to provide 
diverse offerings to students, it   may be in
 the faculty’s best interest to research the transferability of these types of 
courses and to ensure that students are being appropriately served.
 It may be appropriate to decrease the number of 
courses offered and to dedicate the focus on
 a core of transferable courses. 
Through the Assurance Argument and during the site visit, the team obtained numerous examples of how the 
institution develops, tracks, and utilizes student learning outcomes at the course, program, and institution level. 
These learning outcomes are consistent across all modes of delivery: face-to -face, online asynchronous, online 
synchronous, hybrid, and dual credit. 
The college has developed a general education curriculum organized around seven themes and that is designed to 
provide all    students with a   base of knowledge required to be successful in today's environment. The general 
education or
 "core" curriculum is grounded in the institution's mission and clearly supports its associate degree 
educational offerings. The maintenance of the general education curriculum is divided between the Student
 

College of DuPage - Fact Check - Exported on 5/17/2022 - DRAFT - 
Page 60 
 
 
Learning and Assessment Committee (SLAC) and appropriate academic programs and faculty. 
The site visit team heard faculty, staff, and administrators speak of the intense focus the institution has on student 
success. The College of DuPage has invested an enormous amount of resources into this effort and has created a 
"wrap-around" cohort of support programs that have positively impacted retention and completion.
 
The Assurance Argument, supported by the site visit, presented clear evidence that COD maintains accountability 
for the quality of its   educational programs and demonstrates dedication to the process of continuous improvement 
through the documented evaluation of student learning –    both curricular and cocurricular. The college is 
encouraged to document the implementation of assessment data collection and analysis processes and procedures 
that it has recently developed as they are implemented. COD should also periodically evaluate those processes to 
ensure validity and reliability are maintained. It is clear through the embedded interim report that COD is well on 
its way to ensuring assessment is comprehensive and carried out regularly. Faculty are beginning to be able to 
evaluate assessment data and are making improvements based on that evaluation.
 
COD demonstrated in their Assurance Argument and during the site visit, that they have the resources, structure, 
and employees to  fulfill their mission. Their budgeting and planning processes included employees throughout the 
institution, administration, and Board of Trustees. Each level understood the process and how it was linked to the 
SLRP and its pillars. The process to  support long-term planning with data tracking was also evident throughout the 
visit. 
 
 
 
 
 
Overall Recommendations  
Criteria For Accreditation 
Met 
 
Sanctions Recommendation 
No Sanction 
 
Pathways Recommendation 
Limited to  Standard 
 
Federal Compliance 
Does not require monitoring 
 
No Interim Monitoring Recommended. 