https://www.cod.edu/student_life/resources/counseling/pdf/soap.pdf


Standards of Academic Progress  
 Status Standard Result Progress 
Academic 
Warning 
Attempted less than 12 College of DuPage 
undergraduate academic credits with cumulative 
GPA less than 2.0. 
Meeting with counselor strongly recommended.  
Standards of Academic Progress discussed. 
 
Academic 
Probation I 
Attempted 12 or more College of DuPage 
undergraduate academic credits with cumulative 
GPA and semester GPA less than 2.0. 
Appointment with counselor required.   
A registration restriction will remain on student’s 
record until cumulative GPA reaches 2.0 or higher. 
Student will no longer be on probation once  
cumulative GPA is 2.0 or higher.  Until then, 
the student will be on Continued Probation. 
Academic 
Probation 
II 
After one semester on Probation I status with 
cumulative GPA and semester GPA less than 2.0. 
Appointment with counselor required.   
Enrollment limited to not more than 13 credits, 
and may include the following options: 
•        Course choice equal to number of credit courses 
successfully completed with C grade or higher 
during previous semester.  
And/or if no courses were successfully completed: 
•       Repeat of courses with D or F grade. 
•       Developmental courses (0 level). 
•       Career/personal development courses, i.e.  
Education 1105, 1110, 1115, Human Services 
1105. 
•        Studio/activity courses, i.e. physical education, 
art, music. 
A registration restriction will remain on student’s 
record until cumulative GPA reaches 2.0 or higher. 
Student will no longer be on probation once 
cumulative GPA is 2.0 or higher.  Until then, 
the student will be on Continued Probation. 
 
A full-time course load is not guaranteed at 
Academic Probation II status. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Academic  
Suspension 
I 
After one semester on Probation II status with 
cumulative GPA and semester GPA less than 2.0. 
One semester suspension.  This lasts for one 
semester after the term during which the GPA 
triggered the suspension (excluding summer). 
When final grades are posted, student will be  
withdrawn from current semester courses and will be  
issued a refund. 
A registration restriction will remain on student’s 
record until cumulative GPA reaches 2.0 or higher. 
If reinstated, after serving one semester of 
automatic suspension (excluding summer) 
student follows Probation II status limitations.  
Must submit an appeal for approval to return. 
Neither reinstatement nor a full-time course 
load is guaranteed.  Until the GPA returns to a 
2.0, student will be on Continued Suspension. 
Academic  
Suspension 
II 
On Probation II status for one semester with 
cumulative GPA and semester GPA less than 2.0 
after returning from one semester automatic 
suspension. 
12 months automatic suspension. 
A registration restriction will remain on the student’s 
record until cumulative GPA reaches 2.0. 
After serving 12 months of automatic 
suspension, if reinstated, student follows 
Probation II status with limitations. Must 
submit an appeal for approval to return.  Until 
the GPA returns to a 2.0, student will be on 
Continued Suspension. 
Neither reinstatement nor a full-time course 
load is guaranteed.   
Suspension 
Appeal 
Student serves either one semester away for 
Suspension I or 12 months away for Suspension 
II. 
Student must complete an Application for 
Reinstatement to College of DuPage form if 
requesting to appeal length of suspension.  Forms 
are available online or from the counselor. 
Student will be notified via email and letter 
regarding the outcome of the Reinstatement 
request within ten (10) business days informing 
him/her of the committee’s decision. 
Once a student is restored to good standing, and if subsequently the cumulative GPA drops below 2.0, the student will re-enter the Standards of Academic Progress at Probation I 
status.  Definitions:  GPA:  Grade Point Average is based on completed credits (no W’s, no I’s are computed). Audit:  Not counted in GPA.  Withdrawal:  Not counted in GPA.  
Incomplete:  Not counted in GPA.  Attempted:  What classes you were enrolled in and a grade given. 
 
NOTE:  Student’s academic history will not change, specifically the failed grades and prior academic standing for the term.                                          REVISED 3/30/15 