https://www.cod.edu/academics/accreditation/pdf/2022-assurance-argument.pdf


Assurance Argument
College of DuPage
Review date: 4/25/2022
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 1

1 - Mission
The institution’s mission is clear and articulated publicly; it guides the institution’s operations.
1.A - Core Component 1.A
The institution’s mission is articulated publicly and operationalized throughout the institution.
1. The mission was developed through a process suited to the context of the institution.
2. The mission and related statements are current and reference the institution’s emphasis on the
various aspects of its mission, such as instruction, scholarship, research, application of
research, creative works, clinical service, public service, economic development and religious
or cultural purpose.
3. The mission and related statements identify the nature, scope and intended constituents of the
higher education offerings and services the institution provides.
4. The institution’s academic offerings, student support services and enrollment profile are
consistent with its stated mission.
5. The institution clearly articulates its mission through public information, such as statements of
purpose, vision, values, goals, plans or institutional priorities.
Argument
1.
Along with the philosophy, vision, and values, the College’s mission statement (College of DuPage is
to be a center for excellence in teaching, learning, and cultural experiences by providing accessible,
affordable, and comprehensive education) is part of the College’s Core Statements. The Core
Statements, including mission are integral to the institutions’ Strategic Long Range Plan (SLRP). In
summer 2019, prior to the 2017-2021 SLRP expiring, the College entered into a collaborative
planning process. In July 2019, at a Board Retreat, the College Board went through an exercise
where they provided input related to where they saw the College going in the next five years. A
similar input exercise was conducted with the Shared Governance Council (SGC) in September and
with the Cabinet in October. Then in January of 2020, at a Board Committee of the Whole meeting,
the Board, constituency leaders and Cabinet went through an exercise where they used the previous
inputs to define “Bold Ideas” for the future. These four sessions were facilitated by Dr. Greg Kuhn,
the director of Northern Illinois University’s Center for Governmental Studies. Dr. Kuhn is an expert
in strategic planning, and has worked with many governmental agencies as they formulated their
plans.
Using the Bold Ideas and other inputs such as a Community Pulse Survey, Noel-Levitz and
CCSSE Student surveys, the Personal Assessment of the College Environment survey, Environmental
Scan, SWOT analysis, and Planning Metrics, the Strategic Long Range Plan Advisory Committee
(SLRPAC), comprised of faculty, administrators, classified staff, student leadership, and chaired by
the Vice President of Planning and Institutional Effectiveness worked throughout the spring term to
formulate a draft strategic plan for consideration by the Board.
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 2

In May 2020, a College-wide webinar was conducted (due to the COVID-19 pandemic) to present
and get thought concerning the Strategic Long Range Plan Advisory Committee’s work. The webinar
was attended by more than 80 individuals.
In addition, a Board Trustee was assigned as the SLRP Liaison and worked with other Board
members in order to solicit potential inputs into the plan and to make regular reports at Board
meetings. Once Board inputs were obtained, the Board Liaison worked with the Vice President of
Planning and Institutional Effectiveness to consolidate and refine the Board inputs and incorporate
them into the final draft plan.
At their June 2020 Board meeting, the Board was presented with a draft recommendation from the
Strategic Long Range Plan Advisory Committee, and at their July 2020 meeting, with minor
modifications, the 2022-2026 SLRP was approved.
2.
As noted in Core Component 1.A.1, as part of the SLRP, all Core Statements, including the mission,
were reviewed and approved by the Board at their July 2020 meeting, and therefore are current. The
College’s SLRP is based on four “Pillars” that emphasize the College’s main focus, which include:
Student Success; Arts, Culture and Community Engagement; Economic Development; and
Organizational Culture. To highlight and emphasize the work the College is doing to advance equity
and inclusion, the first strategic goal under each Pillar is related to equity and inclusion. In addition,
at their July 2020 meeting, the Board updated the College’s values, adding “Equity” to Integrity,
Honesty, Respect, and Responsibility.
Developed from the SLRP, the college creates an Annual Plan that focuses on what and when
strategies and key actions need to be accomplished each fiscal year to advance the College’s mission
and SLRP. The priorities of student success, arts and community engagement, economic
development, and organizational culture are then supported financially by the development and
Board (minutes 6/24/21) adoption of the College’s annual budget (2021-2022).
3.
The community college district served by College of DuPage has grown significantly over the years.
Originally formed from 10 high school districts, District 502 has become the most populous
community college district in Illinois, outside of Chicago. More than one million residents from all
or part of 51 communities comprise today’s District 502, with boundaries encompassing the majority
of DuPage County, and parts of Cook and Will counties.
The College’s stated mission is to be the center for excellence in teaching, learning, and cultural
experiences by providing accessible, affordable, and comprehensive education. The College’s vision
is to be the primary college district residents choose for high quality education. These statements
clearly identify the nature (high quality education and cultural experiences), scope (accessible,
affordable and comprehensive education) and intended constituents (residents of Community College
District 502) of the higher education offerings and services that the College provides. This is further
elaborated on in Core Component 1.A.4.
4.
College of DuPage serves students primarily from four key market segments identified as: new high
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 3

school graduates, young adults (19-24), adults (25-54), and older adults (55+). Similar to the service
area demographics, the College’s student body is comprised of the following race/ethnic mix:
Asian: College 11% / Service Area 12%, Black: College 7% / Service Area 5%, Latinx: College 25%
/ Service Area 15%, White: College 50% / Service Area 66%
Based on the stated mission, the College strives for excellence in teaching, learning, and cultural
experiences by providing accessible, affordable, and comprehensive education.
Accessibility: The College’s main campus in Glen Ellyn is centrally located in the District and
accessible by a well-established public bus transportation system. In addition, the College offers
classes in four centers (Naperville, Carol Stream, Addison and Westmont) strategically located
throughout the College’s service area. In a 2019 community survey, location and accessibility were
noted as significant strengths. Another way that the College provides accessibility is by offering
asynchronous online and hybrid courses on a wide range of subjects. During the COVID-19
Pandemic, this was augmented by offering many courses through synchronous Virtual Classroom
Meetings.
Affordability: The College strives to keep tuition as low as possible without impairing the quality or
integrity of college programs and services. At $138.00 per credit hour, the College’s tuition and fees
is well below the state average community college tuition of $149.34. In addition to numerous
scholarships offered by the College of DuPage Foundation (Foundation scholarships are typically
based on academic achievement, financial need, field of study, and demographic group.), the College
also offers a limited number of premier merit-based scholarships. An additional JumpStart
Scholarship provides GED® credentialed students who have participated in a GED® prep course
with a jump start into their college experience. Likewise, students who have completed the English as
a Second Language-0956 and/or-0958 and have passed the state-mandated exit test within the last 12
months are also eligible to apply for a JumpStart Scholarship.
The College’s Financial Aid programs are designed to reduce the financial barriers to a college
education. The Financial Aid Office provides guidance and assistance for students in securing Pell
Grants; Monetary Award Program (MAP) Grants; Federal Supplemental Education Opportunity
Grants (FSEOG); Student-to-Student Grants; Federal Work-Study; Federal Direct Plus Loans; and
Veteran and Military Benefits.
In addition, partnering with over 25 public and private high schools and two technology centers, the
College offers, at no cost to the student, college-level dual credit courses. High school teachers who
are also adjunct faculty at College of DuPage teach these courses at the high schools and centers
during the regular school day.
Comprehensive: the College meets five key community educational needs: Transfer Education that
prepares students for transfer to a four-year institution to pursue a bachelor’s degree; Careers and
Technical Education that prepares students who will graduate with an Associate in Applied Sciences
degree or certificate to directly enter the workforce; Developmental Education that provides remedial
education for students who are not academically ready to enroll in college-level courses; Continuing
Education that provides non-credit courses to the community for personal development and
enrichment; and Business Training that provides specialized or customized training and education to
local companies for their employees. The College offers seven associate degrees (Catalog) in two
general areas, baccalaureate transfer, and career and technical education. Baccalaureate transfer
degrees include the Associate in Arts, Associate in Science, Associate in Engineering Science,
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 4

Associate in Fine Arts in Art, and the Associate in Fine Arts in Music. The Associate in Applied
Science degree provides education in more than 40 career and technical programs. The College also
offers an Associate in General Studies degree designed for students who desire to arrange a program
to meet their personal needs and interests. In addition to associate degrees, the College also offers
over 170 certificates in almost 50 career and technical fields.
In addition, the College offers a variety of other experiences for students such as Field and
Experiential Learning courses that includes field-based, hands-on experiences that complement
classroom curriculum; a Study Abroad program that provides students the ability to earn college
credit in a variety of disciplines while living and studying in countries around the world; and an
Honors Program.
Cultural Experiences: Over the last few decades, the McAninch Arts Center (The MAC) has
remained a conveniently accessible cultural arts and gathering place in DuPage County offering
exceptional entertainment and enriching programs. Today, after completing a $35 million
renovation, the facilities and funding allow the MAC to host, on average, 5.1 public performances,
1.6 arts programs, 2.2 rental events, 10.25 rehearsals and one non-art college department use each
week. Or, quite simply, the new MAC presents an average of 2.5 scheduled events per day, seven
days a week, 52 weeks a year.
Each season includes more than 200 performances of plays, concerts and lectures in the MAC’s
theatres and stages, as well as numerous art exhibits in both the Cleve Carney Museum of Art and
MAC lobby area. During summer 2021, the Cleve Carney Museum of Art hosted Frida Kahlo:
Timeless, an exhibit that featured the largest private collection of Frida Kahlo works, valued at $103
million.
The MAC also offers the community numerous opportunities to further explore the arts, expand their
cultural knowledge and engage with artists and performers. Through pre- or post-show discussions
called “MAC Chats,” K-12 school outreach programs, intimate meet-and-greets, master classes,
lectures, demonstrations, and more, the MAC goes beyond the theatre and immerses community
members in rewarding experiences across multiple disciplines that create connection to the artists
and the art form. During the pandemic, in order to keep the community and students engaged in the
arts the MAC offered numerous virtual shows and performances, and a discussion with the MAC
Director called the Backstage Buzz, which airs on local WDCB-TV.
Student Support Services
In order to support students in and out of the classroom, the College offers a wide variety of programs
and services including Counseling and Advising Services; Center for Access and Accommodations;
Veteran and Military Personnel Student Services; International Student Services; Career Services
Center; Math Assistance Area; Tutoring Services; Writing, Reading and Speech Assistance; and
Library/Research Services. During the pandemic, these services were offered in a virtual format. In
order to assess effectiveness of these services during that time, a Fall 2020 Check-In survey was
developed and administered by the College’s Research and Analytics Department. The survey
indicated that about 60 percent of respondents used at least one student service, with Financial Aid,
Counseling, Advising, and Transfer services shown to be the most frequently used. Most respondents
also reported that the services were helpful to them.
5.
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 5

The Core Statements and Strategic Long Range Plan (inclusive of vision, mission, and values) are
posted on the College’s external website and the internal Employee Portal. The vision, mission, and
values are also noted in the first page of the College’s Catalog. Other documents that articulate the
College’s mission are the Fact Book, Comprehensive Annual Financial Report, Budget, Annual Plan,
and Equity Plan, to name a few.
Sources
170 certificates
2017 CCSSE Report
2017 Noel-Levitz SSI Survey Results
7 asoc degrees
adoption__budget BOT June 24 2021 Meeting Minutes
annual budget 2021_2022
annual-plan
Board Retreat Agenda 7-13-2019
Bold Ideas PP from NIU
Cabinet Retreat Full Agenda final 10 07 19
College Catalog 2021-2023
colleges external website
community pulse survey 2019
COW
Employee Portal Landing Page
E-SCAN
Fall 2020 Check in Survey
Field and Experiential Learning Study Abroad and Global Education
Field Experiential Learning
Financial Aid Programs
Honors courses
July 2020 Board Minutes - SLRP Approval
jump_start
June 2020 Board Minutes - SLRP Presented
K-12 outreach
MAC - CLEAVE CARNEY MA
PACE 2017 Report
Planning Metrics for SLRPAC
programs and services
Scholarships Foundation
Service Area
Shared Governance Council
SLRP full graphic-final
SLRPAC Charter
spring Gantt Chart
SWOT Analysis
Virtual Classroom Meetings
Webinar
well below State Average Tuition and Fees
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 6

1.B - Core Component 1.B
The institution’s mission demonstrates commitment to the public good.
1. The institution’s actions and decisions demonstrate that its educational role is to serve the
public, not solely the institution or any superordinate entity.
2. The institution’s educational responsibilities take primacy over other purposes, such as
generating financial returns for investors, contributing to a related or parent organization, or
supporting external interests.
3. The institution engages with its external constituencies and responds to their needs as its
mission and capacity allow.
Argument
1.
As a public comprehensive community college in the state of Illinois, an elected Board of Trustees of
Community College District 502 governs the College. The Board has the legal authority and
responsibility to govern the College in accordance with the State of Illinois’ Public Community
College Act, which focuses on its educational role. This includes (by law) that the College provides
(1) courses in liberal arts and sciences and general education; (2) adult education courses; and (3)
courses in occupational, semi-technical or technical fields leading directly to employment. At least
15% of all courses taught must be in fields leading directly to employment, one-half of which are
courses to be in fields other than business education.
The Board further demonstrates that the College’s educational role is to serve and be responsive to
the public by conducting monthly open Board meetings. All Board meetings are held consistent with
the requirements of the Illinois Open Meetings Act, 5ILCS 110/1 et seq.  College Policy 1.23 (pg. 57)
which also requires that at each Board or Board committee meeting that is open to the public,
members of the public and College employees have the opportunity to make comments or ask
questions of the Board.
Also, College Policy, 3.20 (pg. 120), ensures that the primary purpose of the College facilities is to
accommodate its educational programs. First priority for the use of all College facilities is accorded
to College classes and scheduled College activities.
In addition, the College’s Strategic Long Range Plan, which guides the decision and actions of
College leadership, is predominately outward facing, focusing on student success; arts, culture &
community engagement; and economic development. Likewise, the College’s Annual Action Plan,
which represents each functional area headed by a Cabinet Officer is aligned with the Strategic Long
Range Plan, and guides the actions and decisions of each College division or area.
2.
As a State of Illinois public comprehensive community college, College of DuPage does not have, nor
does it generate financial returns for investors, related parent organization, or supporting external
interest. Its educational responsibilities are its primary purpose, which is dictated by the State of
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 7

Illinois’ Public Community College Act.
In addition, the two documents that demonstrate educational responsibilities take primacy over other
purposes are the College’s Strategic Long Range Plan and Annual Budget. With respect to the
Strategic Long Range Plan, although all Strategic Pillars and Goals support the educational
responsibilities of the College, in particular, our Student Success Pillar is considered our “North
Star.” A visible example of the institution’s commitment to Student Success can be seen in the
significant investment of College resources in a Guided Pathways Program, which directly supports
the Strategic Goal of: Improving student persistence, completion, transfer, and job obtainment.
When looking at the FY 2022 Budget, the Education and Operations & Maintenance Fund that
supports the College’s primary educational mission is $183 million, whereas the College’s Auxiliary
Fund that support functions such as the McAninch Art Center, etc. is $12.4 million (or
approximately 6.5 percent of the two funds combined). In addition, the budget shows that the
Auxiliary Fund revenues are slightly more than the expenditures, demonstrating that Auxiliary
operations are self-sufficient and do not impact or draw from the Educational Fund.
3. 
One of the initial ways the College engages with its external constituencies is through the College’s
Board of Trustees. Directed by State of Illinois’ Public Community College Act, the Board is
comprised of seven voting members elected from the district at large, and serving a six-year term.
Since Board members are required to reside in the College’s service area (district) for one year prior
to election and remain a district resident throughout their term, they are essentially rooted in the
community and as such, are responsive to the wants and needs of the community.
In addition to soliciting comments, questions, and input from external constituencies at the beginning
of each Board meeting, the Board also places key documents such as the Fiscal Plan on the College’s
website for a period of one month to allow review, comment, or clarification from any community
member prior to a Board vote.
The Business and Technology Division prepares students for entry into the job market and gives
them a firm academic base for continuing their education at a four-year college or university. Input
from Advisory Committees made up of business and industry representatives ensure state-of-the-art
curricula and up-to-date information. Likewise, each health program has some form of an advisory
committee.
The College’s social media pages, Facebook, Twitter, and LinkedIn accounts are monitored by
members from College of DuPage’s Marketing and Communications staff. These staff members are
responsible for listening and responding to student needs via social media, and for communicating
the information learned on social media to the appropriate department or area. An additional
listening and learning method that the College uses is a Community Pulse Survey. The survey is
administered approximately every eighteen to twenty-four months, (delayed because of COVID-19),
the survey, with an error margin of ±5 percent, focuses on the College’s image, academic reputation,
cost and value, loyalty to the College, and perceived strengths and weaknesses of the College.
Potential students and parents are invited to attend Student Parent Information Night events and
meet with admissions representatives. High schools in the district schedule “large campus visit days”
where prospective students tour the campus and have an opportunity to interact with representatives
from Student Affairs.
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 8

Continuing Education is responsive to and serves a diverse cross section of the College’s external
constituencies through Adult Education, Adult Enrichment, Business Solutions, Career Training,
Developmental Education, Professional Development, Public Service, and a Youth Academy.
The Business Development Center, is located in downtown Glen Ellyn, in a building owned by the
village, the center provides a viable service to the small business community. During fiscal year
2015, the Center served 651 clients; provided 2,930 hours of counseling; and offered 181 seminars
that served 789 clients. Additionally, the team helped their clients secure $167,915,830 in contracts
(one for $98 million, and one for $60 million); secure $6,582,200 in loans, which includes a stock
investment of $1.3 million; and generate $408,400 in export revenue. Also located in the same
building is Innovation DuPage, a business incubator and accelerator, which was cofounded by
College of DuPage, Choose DuPage Economic Development Alliance and Village of Glen Ellyn. The
Board of Directors includes five administrators and faculty from the college. Innovation DuPage has
collaborated with a number of regional organizations and educational institutions, including the
Village of Glen Ellyn, Choose DuPage, Argonne National Laboratory, Fermilab, Benedictine
University, Northern Illinois University, North Central College, Elmhurst College, DeVry University,
Indiana Tech, Chamber630, Glen Ellyn Chamber of Commerce, West Suburban Chamber of
Commerce and Industry, Western DuPage Chamber of Commerce, Greater Oak Brook Chamber of
Commerce, County of DuPage, Village of Woodridge, workNet DuPage, Illinois Small Business
Development Center, Illinois Procurement Technical Assistance Center, Illinois International Trade
Center, Community Unit School District 200, Glenbard Township High School District 87, DuPage
High School District 88, MACLYN, and Glen Ellyn Bank and Trust, to name a few. Together, the
Business Development Center and Innovation DuPage are focused on the College’s Strategic Pillar of
Economic Development.
In addition to providing accessible, affordable and comprehensive education, another aspect of the
College’s mission is to be a center for cultural experiences. Cultural needs of the community are
addressed through the McAninch Arts Center (MAC) and the Cleve Carney Museum of Art. Each
season includes more than 200 performances of plays, concerts and lectures in the theatres and on the
stages, as well as numerous art exhibits in both the Cleve Carney Museum of Art and MAC lobby
area. This past summer, the Cleve Carney Museum of Art and the MAC hosted one of the largest
private collections of original artwork by Frida Kahlo in a multifaceted exhibition entitled Frida
Kahlo:  Timeless. The exhibition, was the most comprehensive presentation of Kahlo’s work
displayed in the Chicago area in over 40 years.
Another auxiliary enterprise that supports the cultural mission of the College is WDCB 90.9 FM, a
5,000-watt radio station. WDCB draws approximately 150,000-170,000 unique listeners per week,
many of whom support the station through monetary donations. In addition, WDCB is supported by
corporate underwriting and grants from the Corporation for Public Broadcasting, and the Illinois
Arts Council Agency.
Finally, the College’s President regularly engages with external constituencies through presentation,
meetings, and events.
Sources
Advisory Committees
annual budget 2021_2022
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 9

annual-plan
Business Development Center
community pulse survey 2019
Continuing Education
Guided Pathways Program
Innovation DuPage
MAC - CLEAVE CARNEY MA
Open Meetings Act_5 ILCS 120
Policy Manual
Policy Manual (page number 57)
Policy Manual (page number 120)
presentations meetings events President 2021
Public Community College Act_110 ILCS 805
SLRP full graphic-final
Soliciting comments questions___BOT minutes Dec 2021
WDCB
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 10

1.C - Core Component 1.C
The institution provides opportunities for civic engagement in a diverse, multicultural society and
globally connected world, as appropriate within its mission and for the constituencies it serves.
1. The institution encourages curricular or cocurricular activities that prepare students for
informed citizenship and workplace success.
2. The institution’s processes and activities demonstrate inclusive and equitable treatment of
diverse populations.
3. The institution fosters a climate of respect among all students, faculty, staff and administrators
from a range of diverse backgrounds, ideas and perspectives.
Argument
1.
The College’s Associate in Applied Science degree provides education in more than 40 career and
technical programs, and in addition, the College offers over 170 certificates in almost 50 career and
technical fields, all of which directly prepare students for workplace success. To further prepare
students for informed citizenship and workplace success, in 2009 the College faculty approved a set
of General Education Student Learning Outcomes, which they later modified and reaffirmed in 2018
for students enrolled in all associate degree programs. General Education refers to a broad body of
knowledge and skills common to all educated people, regardless of their profession.
In 2000, the Center for Service Learning was established with a three-year grant from the
Corporation for National and Community Service. The center was established to introduce the service
learning teaching methodology to College faculty and to serve as the focal point for providing
classroom-based community service opportunities for students. Because of its success, the center
became an official part of the College in 2003. Service learning at the College combines volunteer
service with academic instruction. In service learning courses, students address the needs of
community organizations in a way that allows them to better understand course concepts. Therefore,
service learning offers students a chance to master coursework content, while making a real
difference in their community. Key benefits of service learning for students include:
Strengthening of analytical and critical thinking skills
Creating opportunities to gain real-world experience while learning their coursework and
building their resumes
Involvement in assisting with an issue that is affecting their community
Teaches citizenship and social responsibility skills that can last a lifetime
The College has over 60 service learning placement sites under the seven main headings of:
Aging/Hospice; Food Insecurities/Low Income Support; Individuals with Disabilities; International;
Foreign Language; Outdoor; Youth/Tutoring;
In order to further help students with workplace success, Career Services is an important link
between job seekers and the business community, Career Services at the College offers a variety of
resources to help individuals with their short and long-term career goals and help businesses with
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 11

staffing needs. Specifically, Career Services helps individuals:
Assess interests, skills, values and needs to prepare for marketable careers
Understand national and international trends
Write resumes and other job search documents
Develop interview techniques
Gain business and industry contacts
Learn salary negotiation skills
Develop strategies for successful transition into new employment
In addition to face-to-face advice, Career Services also offers a variety of Chaparral Career
Advantage workshops that are open to all students, alumni, and community members. Career
Services also works with students pursuing internships.  
Another way the College further prepares students for workplace success and to make them informed
citizens is through the Field Studies and Study Abroad programs, which combines classroom-based
instruction with field-based experience for unique learning experiences. COD students can study
abroad almost anywhere in the world in both COD faculty-led programs and partner provider
programs that allow them to earn COD credit and maintain financial aid through COD.
In order to prepare students for informed citizenship, the College supports 12 political/advocacy
student clubs such as Care to Cure, Environmental Club, Mental Health Awareness, Students for a
Democratic Society, to name a few. Likewise, the College supports 42 pre-professional student clubs
to help students with workplace success. Some of those clubs include Accounting Club, Architecture
Club, Entrepreneurship Club, Horticulture Club, and the Paralegal Club, to name a few.
The Office of Student Life is committed to the development of student leaders at the College.
Therefore, the Living Leadership Program is a free non-transcript certificate program, focused on
developing students into active leaders and positive change-makers. Students may begin the program
at any time and completion of the requirements is self-paced. The program is divided into two phases
to meet the diverse needs of students:
Phase 1. Introduces students to leadership and focuses on leading of self and others through practical
skill development workshops and involvement in campus life.
Phase 2. Builds on leadership experience by guiding the students through expanded topics in
leadership including servant leadership, ethical leadership, articulating a vision, and developing a
personal leadership philosophy. Students are required to complete additional skills workshops,
volunteer hours, and the Leadership Development class (Humanities 2210, 3 credits).
With the mission of “facilitating values-based opportunities for leadership development to enhance
citizenship at our college and in our communities,” the Student Leadership Council creates
opportunities for students to become directly involved in the College’s culture and decision making.
Student Leadership Council officers are full voting members of the College’s Shared Governance
Council.
The Inclusive Excellence Peer Mentoring (IEPM) enhances student success experience and student
leadership/mentoring skills. The program matches first-year or first-time College students with
continuing students (20 credits or more). Each year the program seeks interested students who wish
to be mentors and/or first time students who may benefit from this initiative as a mentee.
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 12

2.
At their November 2018 meeting, the Board approved an update to the 2017-2021 Strategic Long
Range Plan. As a part of that update, the Board took the opportunity to modify the College’s
Philosophy statement, making “diversity,” and “embracing differences” more deliberate. Then in July
2019, the Board approved the 2022-2026 Strategic Long Range Plan. As part of that plan, the Board
added Equity to the College’s set of core values.
In addition, there are three specific Board policies that address diversity, which includes: Policy
3.10 (pg.111): Prohibition of Discrimination and Harassment; Policy 3.11 (pg. 112): Sexual
Discrimination, Harassment, and Misconduct; and Policy 4.01 (pg. 155): Equal Employment
Opportunity and Commitment to Diversity. The Policy related to Prohibition of Discrimination,
Harassment and Sexual Harassment is also referenced in the College Catalog (pg. 203).
In 2013-2014, the College developed a Center for Student Diversity and Inclusion. The focus of the
Center is to examine the best ways to attract and serve our diverse student populations and to
improve the cultural environment to support students’ academic success and to help students engage
in the College’s social and cultural experiences.
In response to the increase in the Hispanic/Latino students coming from district high schools,
College of DuPage’s Latino Outreach works to assist this population in achieving their educational
goals by offering extensive support services and referrals. The goal of the Center is to recruit, retain
and transition Hispanic students beyond College of DuPage.
In 2019, the College entered into a memorandum of understanding with the Partnership for College
Completion (PCC) to participate in the Illinois Equity in Attainment Initiative (ILEA). The ILEA is
PCC’s signature technical support effort to catalyze urgent action on campuses across Illinois to
eliminate racial and socioeconomic graduation disparities on their campuses and significantly
increase completion rates for African-American, Latino, and low-income students. As a result of the
ILEA initiation a cross-constituency Equity and Access Team was formed. In August 2020, a detailed
Equity Plan was finalized. The goal of the equity plan is to eliminate disparities in degree completion
rates on our campus between Black and White students, between Latinx and White students, and
between low-income and higher income students (as indicated by Pell receipt). In addition, three sub-
teams were developed around the plans three key strategies: 1) Center for Diversity, Equity and
Inclusion; 2) Professional Development – Equity Training for Faculty, Staff and Students; and 3)
Employee Recruitment and Hiring Practices through an Equity Lens.
As part of College of DuPage’s commitment to educational access and success, COD students have a
simpler path to transfer to some historically black colleges and universities (HBCUs) because of 2021
articulation agreements with Florida A&M University and Kentucky State University.
The College is committed to equality of educational opportunities for eligible students with
disabilities. Through the Center for Access and Accommodations students can request
accommodation in testing, assistive/adaptive technology, sign language interpreters, barrier-free
parking, and wheelchairs, to name a few.
Another unique and innovative program is Autismerica, which just celebrated its 10
th
 anniversary.
This organization, created by a COD professor, is a student organization for students on the autism
spectrum to better educate themselves about COD and socialize with one another in a safe and
supportive environment. Parents are also provided a separate meeting opportunity.
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 13

Persons of more than 50 different nationalities are enrolled at the College. The College provides
support, such as F-1 and M-1 immigration advising, US Citizenship and Immigration Service
application and notification assistance, requests for official letters, employment assistance, and cross-
cultural/personal advising through the International Student Services Office.
The College has also made efforts to provide our students and community with a safer and more
inclusive campus by providing a number of single-stall gender inclusive restrooms throughout
buildings on the Main Campus. In addition, the College’s Safe Zone is an association of students,
faculty and staff who are focused on building a safe, affirming and welcoming campus for members
of the LGBTQIA+ community. Safe Zone members are individuals who are willing to provide a safe
haven, listening ear, and support for LGBTQIA+ people or anyone dealing with sexual orientation or
gender identity/expression issues. After Safe Zone training, Safe Zone members can display a placard
in their office, classroom or residence showing that they are a friend to the LGBTQIA+ community.
The College also takes the position that all students and employees should consider it their
responsibility to report concerning behaviors for the safety and well-being of the student and campus
community. The Behavioral Intervention Team (BIT) acts as a “centralized collection” point of
information that addresses a spectrum of risk from a position of care and concern: odd, disturbing or
disruptive behaviors; unexpected change in academics; potential targeted violence; harm to self; and
provides guidance to campus offices with regard to student success and safety. A referral to the BIT
can be made through an online Behavioral Intervention Team (BIT) Referral Form.
Finally, the College strongly encourages all good-faith reports of harassment and discrimination, and
responds to all reports based on the nature and quality of the information that is shared. To facilitate
reporting, the College provides an online Formal Discrimination and Harassment (Title IX) Incident
Reporting Form.
3.
Understanding that organizational climate is the recurring patterns of behavior, attitudes, and
feelings that characterize life in the organization, the College uses a variety of vehicles such as
shared experiences, training, clubs, and groups, etc., to foster a climate of respect among all students,
faculty, staff, and administrators.
In September 2020, the College launched a new initiative, #ChapsUnite Against Racism. This
college-wide effort is designed to actively examine the ways that racism exists in today's society and
how the College and the surrounding community can work together to create a better world. The
academic yearlong initiative incorporated social media, videos, photos, forums, and a partnership
with the DuPage County Board Chairman and other key stakeholders. Of this effort, the DuPage
County Chairman said: "This collaboration with College of DuPage is incredibly valuable because it
allows our entire community to explore what diversity and inclusion really mean in each of our daily
lives. Working with the college faculty, staff and students, we believe this collective effort will
strengthen our community and allow DuPage County to set a positive example for productive
dialogue."
During monthly administrator meetings, time has been allocated for an Equity Discussion - Equity
Projects Team Time. During these facilitated interactive sessions, College administrators discuss and
address issues related to equity, diversity, and inclusion.
The College also provides an array of mandatory and voluntary training and activities to support
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 14

inclusive and equitable treatment of diverse populations. For example, all staff are required to
complete (on an annual or bi-annual basis) training on ethics, harassment prevention, and mandated
reporter. In addition, anyone serving on a search committee is required to complete the College’s
Diversity Training.
Within the College’s employee learning management system, Cornerstone®, staff and faculty can
access numerous courses and activities related to equity and inclusion. For example, College of
DuPage 21 Day Racial Equity Habit-Building Challenge, which was introduced several years ago by
diversity expert Eddie Moore, Jr. is available to individuals and teams to help create a greater
understanding of the intersections of race, power, privilege, supremacy, oppression, and equity. Other
courses include Teaching and Learning in the Diverse Classroom, Creating a Culture of Validation,
Justice, and Equity, Assessment Work is Equity Work—Disaggregating and Interpreting Assessment
Data, to name a few.
The College also provides monthly book clubs and other activities related to equity and inclusion. For
example this past summer, in the College’s Cornerstone® Learning Management System, faculty and
staff could participate in a Summer Reading Seminar called: “Radical Hope.” The seminar used
Kevin Gannon’s book “Radical Hope: A Teaching Manifesto” as the central text for examining the
transformative power of higher education and our roles as instructors in creating better lives for our
students. Likewise, faculty could take a course titled: Best Practices for Instructing and Supporting
Students with Disabilities, which provided insights, tools, and resources in order for faculty to better
instruct and support students with disabilities in the classroom and their offices.
The College also offers an abundant variety of Global Education on Campus experiences for students.
For example:
Global Flicks is an annual international film series held in February and March. Films are
presented in their original language with English subtitles.
Africa and Africa Diaspora Committee promotes and educates about cultures, histories and
traditions from Africa.
Asia Committee seeks to foster a richer understanding and appreciation of the cultures of Asia
through interdisciplinary events.
European Studies Committee promotes understanding and appreciation of European countries,
languages, and cultures by hosting events in collaboration with European cultural, educational,
artistic, and diplomatic organizations.
Latin American Studies Committee promotes understanding and appreciation of Latin
American countries and cultures through lectures, field trips, and performing arts.
Middle East Committee explores the richly diverse cultures of the region and presents
perspectives on current events through an academic lens.
Native American Studies Committee fosters education in Native American history, culture and
literature by sponsoring public events that give Native American educators, artists, and
spokespersons a forum for cross-cultural sharing.
Model United Nations is a student club that explores international relations, diplomacy, and
the mission of the United Nations.
Community College Initiative Program (CCIP) is a US Department of State grant that supports
students for one academic year in the United States. Students from Bangladesh, Brazil,
Columbia, Cote d’Ivoire, Dominican Republic, Egypt, Ghana, India, Indonesia, Kenya, South
Africa, and Turkey enroll in academic courses, participate in professional development and
engage in community service while they gain perspective on American society, culture, and
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 15

institutions.
The College’s Global Education Faculty Liaison provides leadership for coordinating and integrating
global learning outcomes in the curriculum and facilitates opportunities for faculty professional
development on campus and abroad.
Finally, having individual come together for a shared purpose is a powerful way to foster a climate of
respect and collegiality among students, faculty, staff, and administrators. Therefore, every two
weeks during the fall and spring terms (and as needed in the summer), the Shared Governance
Council (comprised of students, full-time faculty, adjunct faculty, classified staff, managerial staff,
and administrators) meets to discuss important College issues and initiatives, and to make
recommendations to the President. Additional information on the Shared Governance Council is
found in Core Component 5.A.1.
Sources
170 certificates
60 service learning Placement Sites
Associate in Applied Science Degree
Autismerica
Behavioral Intervention
Behavioral Intervention Team Referral Form
Board Approved Board Meeting Minutes July 18 2019
Career Services
Center for Access and Accommodations
Center for Student Diversity Equity and Inclusion
Chaps Unite Against Racism
College Catalog 2021-2023
College Catalog 2021-2023 (page number 203)
College Policy Manual
College Policy Manual (page number 111)
College Policy Manual (page number 112)
College Policy Manual (page number 155)
Complete_mandatory training
Cornerstone
Equity and Access Team Membership
Equity Team Discussion - Administrator Meeting Agendas
equity-plan
Field and Experiential Learning Study Abroad and Global Education
General Education Student Learning Outcomes
Global Education on Campus _ College of DuPage
Inclusive Peer Mentoring
International Student Services
Latino Outreach
Living Leadership Program
memorandum of understanding ILEA
online Formal Discrimination and Harassment (Title IX) Incident Reporting Form
Safe zone training
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 16

Service Learning
Shared Governance Council
Student Leadership Council
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 17

1.S - Criterion 1 - Summary
The institution’s mission is clear and articulated publicly; it guides the institution’s operations.
Summary
The mission of College of DuPage to be a center for excellence in teaching, learning, and cultural
experiences by providing accessible, affordable, and comprehensive education is outward focused and
supportive of all stakeholder groups (i.e., students, employers, District K-12 partners, and the
community at large). The mission is articulated publicly on the College’s website, in the College
catalog, and is included in all public planning and finance documents.  
Guided by the mission, the College used a collaborative process to develop the 2022-2026 Strategic
Long Range Plan (SLRP), which was adopted by the Board. The plan has three outward-facing
strategic pillars, Student Success; Arts, Culture & Community Engagement; and Economic
Development, and one inward-facing strategic pillar, Organizational Culture.  The SLRP, inclusive
of the mission, guides all aspects of the College’s operations. 
The primacy of the mission is to provide accessible, affordable, and comprehensive education, which
is demonstrated by the fact that 94 percent of the College’s operational budget is allocated to the
Operations & Maintenance Fund that supports teaching and learning. The College also demonstrates
its commitment of being a center for excellent cultural experiences for all members of the community
by providing a variety of productions and exhibits in the McAninch Arts Center and Cleve Carney
Museum of Art.
Sources
There are no sources.
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 18

2 - Integrity: Ethical and Responsible Conduct
The institution acts with integrity; its conduct is ethical and responsible.
2.A - Core Component 2.A
The institution establishes and follows policies and processes to ensure fair and ethical behavior on
the part of its governing board, administration, faculty and staff.
1. The institution develops and the governing board adopts the mission.
2. The institution operates with integrity in its financial, academic, human resources and
auxiliary functions.
Argument
2.A.1.
Along with the philosophy, vision, and values, the College’s mission statement (College of DuPage is
to be a center for excellence in teaching, learning, and cultural experiences by providing accessible,
affordable, and comprehensive education) is part of the College’s Core Statements. The Core
Statements, including the mission are integral to the institution's Strategic Long Range Plan (SLRP).
In summer 2019, prior to the 2017-2021 SLRP expiring, the College entered into a collaborative
planning process. In July 2019, at a Board Retreat, the College Board went through an exercise
where they provided input related to where they saw the College going in the next five years. The
Shared Governance Council (SGC) participated in a similar exercise in September as did the
Cabinet in October. Then in January of 2020, at a Board Committee of the Whole meeting, the
Board, constituency leaders, and Cabinet went through an exercise where they used the previous
inputs to define “Bold Ideas” for the future. These four sessions were facilitated by Dr. Greg Kuhn,
the director of Northern Illinois University’s Center for Governmental Studies. Dr. Kuhn is an expert
in strategic planning, and has worked with many governmental agencies as they formulated their
plans.
Using the Bold Ideas and other inputs such as a Community Pulse Survey, Noel-Levitz, and CCSSE
Student surveys, the Personal Assessment of the College Environment survey, Environmental Scan,
SWOT analysis, and Planning Metrics, the Strategic Long Range Plan Advisory
Committee (SLRPAC), comprised of faculty, administrators, classified staff, student leadership, and
chaired by the Vice President of Planning and Institutional Effectiveness worked throughout the
Spring  term to formulate a draft strategic plan for consideration by the Board.
In May 2020, a College-wide webinar was conducted (due to the COVID-19 pandemic) to present
and get thought concerning the Strategic Long Range Plan Advisory Committee’s work. More than
80 individuals attended the seminar.
In addition, a Board Trustee was assigned as the SLRP Liaison and worked with other Board
members in order to solicit potential inputs into the plan and to make regular reports at Board
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 19

meetings. Once Board inputs were obtained, the Board Liaison worked with the Vice President of
Planning and Institutional Effectiveness to consolidate and refine the Board inputs and incorporate
them into the final draft plan.
At their June 2020 Board meeting, the Board was presented with a draft recommendation from the
Strategic Long Range Plan Advisory Committee, and at their July 2020 meeting, with minor
modifications, the 2022-2026 SLRP was approved.
2.A.2.
Financial Integrity
Based on College Policy 1.06, (pg.35), key responsibilities of the Board with respect to institutional
finance are to review the financial management of the College and cause an audit (in accordance
with Section 3-22.1 of the Illinois Public Community College Act, 110 ILCS 805/3-22.1) to be made,
annually. The Board is also responsible for reviewing and approving the College’s annual budget and
perform (at least quarterly) budget variation and performance reviews.
In order to ensure integrity and transparency in the financial affairs of the College, the Board
established a Board Audit Committee (College Policy 1.18, pg. 52) consisting of at least three
members, with at least two of the members being voting members of the Board. The Audit
Committee operates in accordance with the Government Finance Officers Association best practices.
The Audit Committee provides independent review and oversight of the College’s financial reporting
processes, internal controls, and independent auditors as reflected in their minutes. The Audit
Committee provides a forum, separate from management, in which auditors and other interested
parties can candidly discuss concerns. Therefore, the Audit Committee helps to ensure that
management properly develops and adheres to a sound system of internal controls, that procedures
are in place to objectively assess management’s practices, and that the independent auditors, through
their own review, objectively assess the College’s financial reporting practices.
Under authority of College Policy 1.11, (pg.41) to assist the Board in the oversight of the College’s
business and in evaluating the effectiveness of risk management, internal controls, and governance
processes, the Board has appointed an Internal Auditor to perform audit functions as required by the
Board. Such audit functions include investigating known or suspected frauds, internal control
weaknesses, and/or risk areas. The Internal Auditor and his/her staff administratively reports to the
Office of the General Counsel of the College. In the event the Office of the General Counsel is the
subject of the Internal Auditor’s investigation, the Internal Auditor and his/her staff reports directly
to the Board.
Financial integrity at the College is further maintained through specific College Policies which
regulate financial practices and provide for transparency and accountability. The policies include:
2.01 – Financial Operations (pg. 60)
2.02 – Financial Reports (pg. 61)
2.03 – Basis of Accounting (pg. 62)
2.04 – Annual Budget (pg. 63)
2.10 – Unrestricted Fund Balance pg. 65
2.11 – Budget Transfers (pg. 67)
2.12 – Inter-fund Loans (pg. 68)
2.13 – Investment of College Funds (pg. 69)
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 20

2.14 – Long-Term Debt Management (pg. 76)
2.15 – Contributions, Gifts, and Exchange Transactions (pg. 79)
2.20 – Procurement (pg. 81)
2.21 – Vendor Payments (pg. 82)
2.22 – Insurance (pg. 84)
2.23 – Construction Contracts (pg. 85)
2.24 – Auxiliary and Other Revenue-Generating Contracts (pg. 86)
2.25 – Business Enterprise Program (pg. 87)
2.26 – Privatization of Services (pg. 89)
2.30 – Checking Accounts (pg. 90)
2.31 – Credit Cards (pg. 91)
2.32 – Sale or Disposal of College Property (pg. 92)
2.40 – Reimbursement of Employee Travel Expenses (pg. 93)
2.41 – Reimbursement of Expenses for Non-Employees (pg. 96)
College Policy 4.21 (pg. 178) delegates to the President the responsibility (and the President is
required) to develop, implement, propose, and modify procedures as necessary to carry out the
Board’s policies, rules, and actions.
In addition, at their monthly meeting, the College’s Board receives and reviews Financial Statements
inclusive of items such as:
Schedule of Investments
General Fund – Budget and Expenditures
Operating Cash Available to Pay Annual Operating Expenses
Disposal of Capital Assets
Tax Levy Collections
Budgetary Position Additions
In compliance with the Illinois Open Meetings Act, and to provide for public transparency, the
monthly Board packets are posted to the College’s public website at least 48 hours prior to all
meetings. In addition, all Board packets (back to 2009) are also archived on the College’s public web
site for public access and viewing.
Based on College Policy 1.12 (pg.42), the Board requires an audit to be made at the end of each fiscal
year by an accountant licensed to practice public accounting in Illinois. The Independent Auditor is
engaged by the Board and reports directly to the Board. The audit is conducted in a manner to permit
sufficient time for review by the Audit Committee and by the full Board in advance of the December
30 deadline for submission to the Illinois Community College Board.
In early 2021, Moody’s Investors Service reassessed the College’s bond rating. On February 8, 2021,
Moody’s issued a press release noting the following Rating Action: “Moody's assigns Aaa to
Community College Dist. 502 (Du Page Co.), IL's GO; outlook stable.” In their press release,
Moody’s gave the following rationale for their rating: “The Aaa GO rating reflects the district's
excellent credit quality including a very large, diverse tax base in the western suburbs of Chicago
(Ba1 negative) with strong resident income indices. Healthy financial operations are characterized by
robust reserve levels and strong flexibility to adjust operating expenditures and tuition rates. The
district's debt burden is low. The rating also incorporates contingent risk associated with state
support for contributions to an underfunded State Universities Retirement System (SURS). The
district's ample reserves and the minimal impact to property tax revenue are important mitigants as
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 21

the district continues to navigate the impacts of the coronavirus.” With respect to the stable outlook,
Moody’s noted: “The stable outlook reflects the district's low reliance on state operating aid and
management's conservative budgeting. While the district retains some exposure to the state because
of the significant pension contributions made by the state on behalf of the college, that risk is
mitigated by the district's substantial reserve cushion.”
Human Resources Integrity
All College Board members and employees have an obligation to act in the best interests of the
College and prevent personal interests from interfering with that obligation. To that end, in July
2009, the College Board adopted in its totality, the Ethics Ordinance prescribed by sections 70-5(i)
and (ii) of the Illinois State Officials and Employees Ethics Act, 5 ILCS 430/1-1 et seq., as part of its
Ethics Policy.
The College is committed to the highest ethical standards and conducting its operations in
compliance with federal and state laws and regulations. Therefore, College Policy 3.08 encourages
College employees, students, vendors, and other members of the College community to disclose
allegations of wrongdoing concerning the College. Wrongdoing may include, but is not limited to:
Crimes or violations of the law, state regulations, or federal regulations;
Fraud or financial irregularity;
Improper use of College funds, property, or assets;
Corruption, bribery, or blackmail;
Endangering the health or safety of an individual;
Harming College property;
Abuse or harassment of Students, Employees, patrons, College guests, or visitors;
Engaging in activity in violation of Policy, Administrative Procedures, or other College rules
and regulations;
Other unethical conduct.
As outlined in College Policy 3.10 (pg.111), the College is committed to providing a safe, tolerant,
and inclusive educational and employment environment. It is the College’s intent to comply with all
applicable state and federal laws regarding non-discrimination and non-harassment. The College will
not tolerate discrimination or harassment of any kind. No student, employee, Trustee, or visitor will
discriminate against or harass a student, employee or visitor on the basis of race, color, religion, sex,
national origin, age, disability, sexual orientation, gender identity and expression, or any other
unlawful basis. Individuals found to have violated this Policy will be subject to disciplinary action up
to and including termination and/or expulsion from the College as determined by such administrative
or Board action as is required by Illinois law or by Board Policy. Individuals who retaliate against
any other individual for filing a complaint or participating in an investigation regarding allegations
of violations of this policy shall be subject to disciplinary action.
Likewise, College Policy 3.11 (pg. 112) prohibits sex discrimination, sexual violence, and
relationship violence (referred to as “Prohibited Conduct”), and is committed to taking action, to the
extent possible, to stop behavior that violates this policy. In addressing Prohibited Conduct, the
College will administer prompt, fair and impartial investigations and disciplinary proceedings.
In addition, the College’s 2022-2026 Strategic Long Range Plan has Equity and Inclusion as
prominent parts of each of its four strategic pillars.
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 22

College of DuPage is defined by its core values of integrity, honesty, respect, responsibility and
equity. These core values are who we are and they guide all of us in how we operate, how we make
decisions, and how we serve our students, community, and colleagues. For these reasons all staff are
required to complete annual compliance training which includes: Active Shooter Awareness;
Discrimination and Harassment Awareness; Information Security Awareness; and Ethics Awareness.
Supervisors have the ability, through an online system, to track staff’s progress in completing the
assigned compliance training in the prescribed time frame. Consequences for staff who are not
compliant include:
Full-time faculty and staff: Lose network access until complete
Part-time temps, student employees: Employment suspended without pay until complete
Part-time instruction faculty: Not eligible for spring assignment
College Policy 1.15 (pg. 46), requires all voting Board members (student trustee is exempt) to
complete a minimum of four hours of professional development leadership training in the first, third,
and fifth years of his/her term. Topics for the training includes: open meetings law, community
college and labor law, freedom of information law, contract law, ethics, sexual violence on campus,
financial oversight and accountability, audits, and fiduciary responsibilities of a community college
trustee.
Staff and faculty are informed and directed by a series of guidebooks and contractual agreements as
follows.
All Employee General Guidebook
Adjunct Faculty Guidebook
Administrators Guidebook
Classified Staff Guidebook
CODAA Contractual Agreement
CODFA Contractual Agreement
CSA - Painters, Groundskeepers, Mechanics & Carpenters Contractual Agreement
FOP Contractual Agreement
Local #399 Contractual Agreement
Managerial Staff Guidebook
Student Employee Information Guidebook
Finally, one of the Colleges five Core Values is Integrity, which carries the expectation that all staff
and Board members demonstrate the highest standard of moral character and ethical behavior.
Academic Integrity
The integrity of the College’s academic and student affairs practices are also directed and maintained
through the following College Policies:
5.01 – Student Admissions and Enrollment (pg. 208)
5.02 – Enrollment Opportunities at Cooperative Institutions (pg. 210)
5.03 – Tuition and Student Fees (pg. 211)
5.04 – Student Handbook, College Catalog, and Registration Guides (pg. 213)
5.05 – Student Services: Counseling, Advising, and Transfer Services (pg. 215)
5.06 – Student Services: Student Financial Assistance (pg. 216)
5.07 – Scholarships (pg. 217)
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 23

5.08 – Student Services: Health and Wellness (pg. 218)
5.09 – Student Services: Career Services (pg. 219)
5.10 – Student Information that is Fair, Accurate, and Complete (pg. 220)
5.11 – Student Accounts (pg. 221)
5.12 – Privacy of Student Records – Family Education Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) (pg.
222)
5.13 – Sexual Assault Awareness Education (pg. 223)
5.14 – Campus Media (pg. 224)
5.15 – Code of Student Conduct (pg. 226)
5.16 – Code of Academic Conduct (pg. 227)
5.17 – Student Standards of Assessment and Academic Progress (pg. 228)
5.18 – Accommodation of Religious Observances (pg. 229)
5.19 – Academic Grievances  (pg. 230)
5.20 – Intercollegiate Athletics (pg. 231)
5.21 – Student Clubs and Organizations (pg. 233)
6.01 – Academic Calendar (pg. 235)
6.02 – College Programs, Resources, and Objectives (pg.236)
6.04 – Degrees and Certificates (pg. 238)
6.04 – Graduation Requirements (pg. 238)
6.05 – Honorary Degrees (pg.239)
6.06 – Program Review and Improvement (pg. 240)
6.07 – Cooperative Agreements with Other Agencies or Institutions (pg. 241)
6.08 – Institutional Exchanges (pg.242)
6.09 – Protection of Copyrighted Materials (pg. 243)
6.10 – Intellectual Property Rights (pg. 244)
6.11 – Instructional Materials (pg. 246)
6.12 – Academic Freedom (pg. 247)
The Provost Council is one of the College’s main teams charged with maintaining the integrity of the
College’s academic and student affairs practices. Members of the Provost Council oversee processes
such as curriculum review, development of new programs, and the modification of existing
programs. Through their oversight, the Provost Council ensures compliance with federal financial
aid guidelines, as well as the academic rigor and learning outcomes associated with academic
programs.
The Code of Student Conduct, and Code of Academic Conduct, including procedures and
consequences for violations, can be found in the College Catalog, and on the College website.
Finally, the Board of Trustees Academic Committee is charged with reviewing and recommending
strategic policies, procedures, and programs to the Board of Trustees to ensure the academic mission
of the college meets the needs of the community.
The committee provides policy guidance and makes recommendations to the Board requiring action
regarding the College’s academic priorities, assuring College-wide program assessment, particularly
those programs issuing college credit, and monitoring of re-accreditation visits by the Higher
Learning Commission. It shall solicit input internally from, e.g., Academic Affairs, Student Affairs,
Student Leadership Council, and other institutional stakeholders. It may also solicit input from
external experts on topics before the Committee, when appropriate and where authorized by the
Chairman of the Board.
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 24

Auxiliary Functions Integrity
Revenues and expenses related to fee-based services to students, faculty, staff and the public are
recorded in the Auxiliary Enterprise Fund. The intent is that this fund will be self-supporting and
that fees will cover the cost of the service. For example, the FY 2022 budget shows revenues of
approximately $13 million, and expenditures of approximately $12.5 million. The Auxiliary Fund is
part of the College’s overall budget, and as such, on an annual basis the Board approves and has
oversight of all Auxiliary Fund budgets.
Each service operates in a similar fashion to a business enterprise. Food Service, the Bookstore, the
Courier, the McAninch Arts Center (MAC), WDCB Radio and Continuing Education are examples
of activities residing in the Auxiliary Enterprise Fund.
When looking at the College FY 2022 Budget, the combined total of expenditures from the Education
Fund and the Operations & Maintenance Fund, the two funds that support the College’s primary
educational mission, is approximately $184 million. Whereas, expenditures from the College’s
Auxiliary Fund is approximately $12.5 million, or less than seven percent of the expenditures from
the funds that support our educational mission.
Sources
2017 CCSSE Report
2017 Noel-Levitz SSI Survey Results
Adjunct Faculty Guidebook
administrator_guidebook
all_employee_guidebook
annual budget 2021_2022
Annual Compliance Training
Bold Ideas PP from NIU
Cabinet Retreat Full Agenda final 10 07 19
classified_guidebook
codaa-agreement
codfa_agreement
College Policy Manual
College Policy Manual (page number 35)
College Policy Manual (page number 41)
College Policy Manual (page number 42)
College Policy Manual (page number 46)
College Policy Manual (page number 52)
College Policy Manual (page number 60)
College Policy Manual (page number 61)
College Policy Manual (page number 62)
College Policy Manual (page number 63)
College Policy Manual (page number 65)
College Policy Manual (page number 67)
College Policy Manual (page number 68)
College Policy Manual (page number 69)
College Policy Manual (page number 76)
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 25

College Policy Manual (page number 79)
College Policy Manual (page number 81)
College Policy Manual (page number 82)
College Policy Manual (page number 84)
College Policy Manual (page number 85)
College Policy Manual (page number 86)
College Policy Manual (page number 87)
College Policy Manual (page number 89)
College Policy Manual (page number 90)
College Policy Manual (page number 91)
College Policy Manual (page number 92)
College Policy Manual (page number 93)
College Policy Manual (page number 96)
College Policy Manual (page number 108)
College Policy Manual (page number 111)
College Policy Manual (page number 112)
College Policy Manual (page number 178)
College Policy Manual (page number 208)
College Policy Manual (page number 210)
College Policy Manual (page number 211)
College Policy Manual (page number 213)
College Policy Manual (page number 215)
College Policy Manual (page number 216)
College Policy Manual (page number 217)
College Policy Manual (page number 218)
College Policy Manual (page number 219)
College Policy Manual (page number 220)
College Policy Manual (page number 221)
College Policy Manual (page number 222)
College Policy Manual (page number 223)
College Policy Manual (page number 224)
College Policy Manual (page number 226)
College Policy Manual (page number 227)
College Policy Manual (page number 228)
College Policy Manual (page number 229)
College Policy Manual (page number 230)
College Policy Manual (page number 231)
College Policy Manual (page number 233)
College Policy Manual (page number 235)
College Policy Manual (page number 236)
College Policy Manual (page number 238)
College Policy Manual (page number 239)
College Policy Manual (page number 240)
College Policy Manual (page number 241)
College Policy Manual (page number 242)
College Policy Manual (page number 243)
College Policy Manual (page number 244)
College Policy Manual (page number 246)
College Policy Manual (page number 247)
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 26

College Policy Manual (page number 248)
Committee of the Whole 1-16-2020
community pulse survey 2019
csa pgmc_painters_grounds_mechanics_carpenters_agreement
E-SCAN
fop_agreement
July 2020 Board Minutes - SLRP Approval
June 2020 Board Minutes - SLRP Presented
local-399 engineers-agreement
managerial_guidebook
minutes Audit Committee
PACE 2017 Report
Planning Metrics for SLRPAC
Press Release Moodys
Professional Develpment and Leadership Training Trustees
Shared Governance Council
SLRP full graphic-final
SLRPAC Charter
spring Gantt Chart
student_employee_information_guidebook
SWOT Analysis
Webinar
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 27

2.B - Core Component 2.B
The institution presents itself clearly and completely to its students and to the public.
1. The institution ensures the accuracy of any representations it makes regarding academic
offerings, requirements, faculty and staff, costs to students, governance structure and
accreditation relationships.
2. The institution ensures evidence is available to support any claims it makes regarding its
contributions to the educational experience through research, community engagement,
experiential learning, religious or spiritual purpose and economic development.
Argument
2.B.1
Overseen by the Cabinet-level position of Vice President, Public Relations, Communications &
Marketing, the College has a staff of marketing, web design, communications, and community
engagement professionals who ensure the accuracy, quality, and integrity of the College's external
web site, and all printed and digital material. This team also manages and monitors all of the
Colleges social media accounts.
The College’s public website provides all stakeholders with information on all aspects of the College,
its programs and operations. For example, general information about the College on the website
contains, but is not limited to, information in the following areas: Academic Programs, Admissions,
Registration & Records, Costs, Scholarships & Aid, Student Life & Resources, Athletics, and About
Us.
The online College Catalog provides general graduation requirements for all academic offerings,
offered by the College. In addition, the Catalog provides detailed information as to requirements
(core courses, electives, and general education requirements) for specific degrees and certificates.
Likewise, the Catalog provides a description, the prerequisites, and number of credit hours awarded
for all courses offered. The comprehensive College Catalog is published every two years, with
curricular updates published online yearly to reflect new, updated, and deactivated courses and
programs. Updates to the Catalog are made collaboratively by Marketing and the Office of the
Provost. During the update process, subject matter experts are consulted for the accuracy, quality, and
integrity of the Catalog. For example, academic divisions and offices are consulted about programs
and offerings, and the College’s Accreditation Liaison Officer (ALO) is consulted on matters of
accreditation, state recognition, etc. New, revised, and deactivated curriculum (courses and
programs) are reviewed through the College Curriculum Process. This process involves: development
by faculty; review by discipline members, library liaisons, counselor liaisons, and Deans; approval by
Division Curriculum Committee; approval by College Curriculum Committee; and approval by Chief
Academic Officer. Designated changes must also be approved by the Illinois Community College
Board (ICCB).
With respect to faculty and staff, the online Catalog provides students and the public with the
credentials of the College’s full-time faculty and administrators. The Catalog identifies each full-time
faculty member by name and academic department, indicates the year of hire, and lists the degrees
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 28

attained and the institutions conferring those degrees. In addition, the College’s website, under
Faculty & Staff Directory, has a searchable Faculty Directory that provides the faculty member’s
office location, phone number, and email address.
Responsive to College Policy 1.06 (pg. 35), on an annual basis, at an open meeting the College’s
Board reviews tuition recommendations made by administration, and sets the tuition and fees for the
upcoming academic year. The College’s website under Tuition and Fees is regularly updated with the
most recent tuition and fees for District residents, senior citizens who are residents, out-of-district
Illinois residents, non-residents of the State of Illinois, students wishing to audit classes, internet-
based courses and where variable tuition applies. Students can also look up lab fees for certain
courses in myACCESS.
The College is a public entity, formed and regulated by the Public Community College Act of 1965.
The Community College Act stipulates the makeup, term limits, powers, and other aspects of the
College’s Board. The Board is the final authority over the College and is responsible for the
development and adoption of the policies, oversight of the activities of the College and exercises
jurisdiction in all matters of the College and its mission.
The College is institutionally accredited by the Higher Learning Commission and as such displays
the HLC Mark of Affiliation on its website. The College has recognition status through the Illinois
Community College Board. Recognition is a state statutory term describing the status of a community
college district in Illinois that meets academic, student support, financial, facility, and reporting
standards as established by the Illinois Community College Board. In addition to Institutional
Accreditation by the HLC and Recognition by the ICCB, a number of the College’s career and
technical programs are approved or accredited by appropriate specialized associations or agencies.
On an annual basis, the Vice President of Planning and Institutional Effectiveness verifies the status
of these accreditations with the respective divisional Dean.
2.B.2.
The focus in the College’s mission is to “be a center of excellence in teaching, learning, and cultural
experiences by providing accessible, affordable, and comprehensive education.” As part of the
strategic long range planning cycle, the College routinely conducts a Community Pulse Survey to
determine if aspects of the mission are being met. Community respondents are asked a series of
questions to assess their attitudes and perceptions about the College’s image, academic reputation,
cost and value, loyalty, and any strengths or weaknesses. In addition, every three to four years the
College administers the PACE employee climate survey and the Noel-Levitz student satisfaction
survey. Both of these surveys provide College leadership with insights into mission fulfilment. The
College’s Consumer Information page provides information on Student Characteristics,
Demographics, Completion, Transfer Out and Retention Rates, as well as Crime Statistics/Annual
Security Report.
In addition to the nine associate degrees and Career and Technical Education specialties, the college
also believes that service learning contributes to a more complete and rounded student experience.
Therefore, each year, hundreds of students are gaining crucial real-world experience, enhanced
learning, and a greater sense of satisfaction by participating in service learning experiences across a
broad range of disciplines and venues. Service learning has been integrated in a variety of ways. In
some classes, service learning is a requirement, for example HUMAN 1100: Introduction to Human
Services requires 20 hours of service learning, in others, it may be an alternate assignment that
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 29

underscores course objectives.
Sources
2017 Noel-Levitz SSI Survey Results
2019 Pulse Survey Report
About US
Academic Programs
Admissions
Athletics
College catalog online
College Policy Manual
College Policy Manual (page number 35)
Faculty Directory
HLC Mark of Aff
HUMAN 1100_ Introduction to Human Services
local-399 engineers-agreement
meeting BOT 3_17_22
PACE 2017 Report
Public Community College Act_110 ILCS 805
recognition status ICCB
Registration and Records
Scholarships Aid
Service Learning
Student Life
Tuition and Fees _ Paying For College
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 30

2.C - Core Component 2.C
The governing board of the institution is autonomous to make decisions in the best interest of the
institution in compliance with board policies and to ensure the institution’s integrity.
1. The governing board is trained and knowledgeable so that it makes informed decisions with
respect to the institution’s financial and academic policies and practices; the board meets its
legal and fiduciary responsibilities.
2. The governing board’s deliberations reflect priorities to preserve and enhance the institution.
3. The governing board reviews the reasonable and relevant interests of the institution’s internal
and external constituencies during its decision-making deliberations.
4. The governing board preserves its independence from undue influence on the part of donors,
elected officials, ownership interests or other external parties.
5. The governing board delegates day-to-day management of the institution to the institution’s
administration and expects the institution’s faculty to oversee academic matters.
Argument
2.C.1.
The College’s Board of Trustees is comprised of seven qualified voting members, elected at-large by
the District 502 electorate, and one non-voting member elected by the student body. The Board of
Trustees is responsible for the overall governance of the College as stipulated by the Illinois Public
Community College Act and guided by College Policy 1.06.
As stipulated by the Illinois Public Community College Act and College Policy 1.15, each Trustee
(with the exception of the student Trustee) shall complete a minimum of four hours of professional
development leadership training in the first, third, and fifth years of his/her term on the following
subject matters: open meetings law, community college and labor law, freedom of information law,
contract law, ethics, sexual violence on campus, financial oversight and accountability, audits, and
fiduciary responsibilities of a community college trustee.
In addition, Board Retreats provide the Trustees with in-depth knowledge and understanding of key
College functions and operations. For example, at their August 12, 2021 Retreat, which was
facilitated by Jim Reed, the Executive Director of the Illinois Community College Trustees
Association, the Board was engaged in discussion on Board Survey Results, Board Relations, Board
Governance, and the College’s Strategic Long Range Plan. Then at another Retreat on August 31,
2021, College staff and Mr. Reed, provided the Board an in-depth look at Guided Pathways; Dual
Credit; Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion; Facilities Master Plan; and the Baldrige Framework for
Performance Excellence.
To further enhance their knowledge and governance acumen, Trustees are also active in both the
local Illinois Community College Trustees Association, and the National Association of Community
College Trustees.
College Policy 1.06 delineates the authority, powers, duties, and responsibilities of the Board. As
previously noted, the Board approved the College’s 2022-2026 Strategic Long Range Plan on July
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 31

16, 2020, the President is evaluated by the Board annually. During the June Board meeting, the
Board approves the College’s budget, which includes establishing tax and tuition rates. As was also
noted, monthly the Board reviews Financial Statements inclusive of items such as:
Schedule of Investments
General Fund – Budget and Expenditures
Operating Cash Available to Pay Annual Operating Expenses
Disposal of Capital Assets
Tax Levy Collections
Budgetary Position Additions
New Board members are educated regarding their roles and responsibilities through orientation
activities conducted by the President’s office. The orientation includes videos on: Curriculum
Development; Strategic Long Range Plan; College History; Budget Process; and Diversity, Equity,
and Inclusion. 
In addition, Trustees are provided with web links on:
History and Background
State Governance of Community Colleges/Public Institutions
IL General Assembly
Community College Act
Illinois Community College Board (ICCB)
Open Meetings Act
Membership Organizations
Illinois Community College Trustee Association (ICCTA)
Association of Community College Trustees (ACCT)
Association of Governance Boards
American Association of Community Colleges
COD Mission & Strategic Plan
Mission statement
Strategic Plan
Board & Institutional Policies
College Policy Manual
Employee Guidebooks and Labor Contracts
Officers and Board Committees
Standing Committee Descriptions
Trustee Member Contact Information 
Board Meeting Schedule
Schedules
Board Minutes/Agendas
Recent Minutes, by Meeting Date
Agendas
Financial Statements
Budget
Financial Statements
Organizational Structure
Organizational Chart
Cabinet
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 32

2.C.2. The governing board’s deliberations reflect priorities to preserve and enhance the institution.
As noted in the Board’s monthly minutes, which are publicly available on the Board’s website,
document agenda items that are considered by the Board prior to a vote. Deliberations concerning
agenda items are related to College priorities focused on preserving and enhancing the institution.
Also, during the Board meeting, any Board member can pull any consent agenda item so that a
deeper deliberation can be had by the Board.
For example, at the July 15, 2021 Board meeting, item 8b: Five-year contract to purchase HP
Personal Computers, HPE Servers, HPE Networking and related purchases to Riverside
Technologies, Inc., for an amount not to exceed $11,090,000.00, and item 8f: Three year contract
with two one-year renewal options for Student Artificial Intelligence (AI) Chatbot Solution to
CareerAmerica, LLC. (dba Ocelot) in an amount not to exceed $330,000 were pulled for additional
deliberation. Likewise, at the Board’s November 20, 2020 meeting, item 8b: Tax Levy Resolution
was pulled for further deliberation. These are but two examples of additional Board deliberation on
items that reflect priorities to preserve and enhance the institution.
2.C.3. The governing board reviews the reasonable and relevant interests of the institution’s internal
and external constituencies during its decision-making deliberations.
Illinois has statutes that the Board is required to follow in conducting its meetings. In addition to
other requirements, the Illinois Open Meetings Act establishes that all meetings need to be held at
specified times and places which are convenient and open to the public, and that the Board can only
convene in closed session for issues and topics outlined as permissible by the Act. In addition the
OMA stipulates that any person shall be permitted an opportunity to address public officials under
the rules established and recorded by the public body. Therefore, at the start of every Board and
Board Committee Meeting, after the call to order, pledge of allegiance, and roll call, there is a time
for public comment as noted in the sample agenda from the August 31, 2021 Board meeting. The
number of public speakers is not limited, however, each speaker is limited to three minutes.
In addition, each Board item presented to the Board for consideration and vote has a staff contact
noted. If the Board has additional questions about an item, that respective staff member, or their
designee is always available at the Board meeting if additional information or clarification is
necessary. For example, the financial reports list the Vice President for Administration, CFO and
Treasurer, and Controller as the staff contacts. If a piece of equipment is being recommended for
purchase, the staff from that area would be noted as the contacts and would be available at the Board
meeting. For example, at the May 20, 2021 Board meeting, a Nexlab Storm Chasing Van for the
Meteorology Program was being considered, and the staff contacts noted and available at the meeting
were a Professor of Meteorology, and the Dean of STEM.
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 33

2.C.4. The governing board preserves its independence from undue influence on the part of donors,
elected officials, ownership interests or other external parties.
College Policy 3.02 stipulates all Board members (as well as staff) have an obligation to act in the
best interests of the College and to prevent personal interests from interfering with that obligation.
College Policy (3.03) also requires all Trustees to comply with the Illinois Governmental Ethics Act,
on or before May 1 of each year. The Act requires that Trustees file verified written statements of
economic interests with the DuPage County Clerk.
To further ensure their independence from undue influence, all Board meetings and interactions are
guided by the Illinois Open Meetings Act. Under the provisions of the Act, notices, agendas, minutes,
audio/video of meetings, meeting presentations, and public comment responses are all posted on the
College’s website, and all decisions requiring a Board vote are done during open sessions.
2.C.5. The governing board delegates day-to-day management of the institution to the institution’s
administration and expects the institution’s faculty to oversee academic matters.
As the Chief Executive Officer, the President is responsible for executing Board of Trustees policies
and administrating the day-to-day operations of the College. By virtue of College Policy 4.21, the
President has a set of duties and responsibilities to the Board, to the College, and to the College
Community.
The President further delegates responsibility to the Cabinet, who prepares agenda items, proposals,
plans, presentations, etc., for consideration by the Board at its regular and special meetings.
As stipulated in the collective bargaining agreement between the College’s Board of Trustees and the
Faculty Association IEA/NEA, the duties of the teaching faculty include teaching, office hours,
student advisement, course material preparation, curriculum development and evaluation, committee
work, and other activities which promote the programs of the College. Furthermore, the College
Curriculum Committee has the responsibility to review and provide input for new and revised courses
and/or programs. The College of DuPage Adjuncts Association contract, including adjunct duties, is
available on the college website.
Sources
August 12 2021 Retreat BOT
August 31 2021 Board Retreat
August 31 2021 public comment note from agenda
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 34

College Policy Manual
College Policy Manual (page number 35)
College Policy Manual (page number 46)
College Policy Manual (page number 100)
College Policy Manual (page number 103)
College Policy Manual (page number 178)
Financial_Statements_For_Information
IL Community College Act
July 2020 Board Minutes - SLRP Approval
June 2020 Board Minutes - SLRP Presented
May 20 2021 Meeting Minutes PG8
November 20 2020 Board meeting
Open Meetings Act_5 ILCS 120
Professional Develpment and Leadership Training Trustees
Video trustee orientation
Web Links Trustee Orientation
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 35

2.D - Core Component 2.D
The institution is committed to academic freedom and freedom of expression in the pursuit of truth in
teaching and learning.
Argument
At its November 15, 2018 Board meeting, the Board revised the College’s Philosophy Statement to
state: College of DuPage values diversity. We seek to reflect and meet the educational needs of the
residents of our large, multicultural district. To this end, we recognize the need for freedom of
expression and that facts, arguments, and judgments should be presented, tested, debated, challenged,
deliberated, and probed for their objective truth in the marketplace of ideas. Every College individual
owes a duty to exercise his or her own individual judgment; and to permit others to exercise that
same freedom of conscience.
College Policy 6.12 (pg. 247) states that academic freedom shall be guaranteed to all Faculty, and no
arbitrary limitations shall be placed on study, investigation, presentation, and interpretation of facts
or ideas. Faculty members will be free to present instructional materials that are pertinent to the
subject and level taught. In addition, the Faculty Contract Section C2 (pg. 126) reflects and ensures a
commitment to freedom of expression and the pursuit of truth in teaching and learning.
Sources
codfa_agreement
codfa_agreement (page number 126)
College Policy Manual
College Policy Manual (page number 247)
Nov 15 2018 BOT Meeting Minutes
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 36

2.E - Core Component 2.E
The institution’s policies and procedures call for responsible acquisition, discovery and application of
knowledge by its faculty, staff and students.
1. Institutions supporting basic and applied research maintain professional standards and provide
oversight ensuring regulatory compliance, ethical behavior and fiscal accountability.
2. The institution provides effective support services to ensure the integrity of research and
scholarly practice conducted by its faculty, staff and students.
3. The institution provides students guidance in the ethics of research and use of information
resources.
4. The institution enforces policies on academic honesty and integrity.
Argument
2.E.1
While the College is not a research institution, we do have an Institutional Review Board for the
review and approval of research that involves human participants at the College. The primary
purpose of the IRB is to ensure that research conducted at the College protects the welfare of human
participants. Faculty, students, or external researchers (typically working on a doctoral dissertation)
wishing to conduct research using human participants at the College are required to have the
College’s Institutional Review Board’s approval before such research is initiated. Ethical principles
and applications as outlined in the Belmont Report are used to ensure that the rights and welfare of
human subjects used in research studies at the College are protected. Typically, the College’s IRB
approves between three and ten projects a year, attached is a sample of such research and the
approval letter.  
2.E.2
The College’s Library provides multiple modes for ensuring that faculty, staff and students have
access to the best practices for conducting research and scholarly work. The Library's Research
Guides are starting points for researching a wide variety of topics. Each guide lists books, videos,
databases, and websites that are useful for researching a particular topic. The guides also show
students how to find and cite resources. The Library also houses a Media Lab which provides space,
resources, and expertise to support students in creative uses of multimedia technology. Students can
design, create, and share digital audio, video, and images. The Media Lab and Library staff help
students build digital literacy skills for class assignments and for personal growth through
workshops, and small group or 1-on-1 assistance. Students can drop in to work on projects, or reserve
space ahead of time.
Based on the Faculty Contract Section D 6.3, the Library Faculty provide reference services,
technical services, information literacy instruction, research, and consultation to individuals and
classes in person, via the Internet, and by other means of communication and collaboration. Library
faculty also provide the following: professional support for curriculum related research for classroom
faculty; assistance with the development of subject area collections to support the College curriculum
and the lifelong learning needs of the College community; collaboration with all faculty to develop
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 37

collections and assignments to support the needs of educational programs; assistance in the
development of instructional materials that support student learning and the overall College
curriculum; and promotion of the Library collections and services to the College community.
2.E.3 
The College’s Library provides information on copyright, plagiarism, and citation. This information
is available online and through regularly scheduled workshops from librarians and Learning
Commons writing coaches. Individual help with proper citation is available from both reference staff
and writing coaches in the Learning Commons. In academic year 2019, the Learning Commons
scheduled 5,493 appointments to assist with writing, in academic year 2020, that number was 4,404,
and even during the pandemic in academic year 2021, over 2,000 appointments were scheduled.
Students can also make an appointment to consult with a reference librarian through a convenient
online scheduling tool, or can chat with a librarian during regular library hours.  A plagiarism
tutorial created by the Library is assigned to some students who receive counseling on academic
dishonesty.
2.E.4 The institution enforces policies on academic honesty and integrity.
College Policy 5.16 (pg. 227): Code of Academic Conduct details the College’s position on academic
integrity. It clearly states that students are expected to refrain from academic dishonesty in all forms,
including but not limited to cheating, plagiarism, furnishing false information, abuse of academic
materials, misconduct during a testing situation, facilitating academic dishonesty, and misuse of
identification with intent to defraud or deceive. The Code of Academic Conduct Procedure is located
in the online College Catalog. After attempting to speak with the student about academic dishonesty,
faculty may choose to submit a complaint of academic dishonesty, which is reviewed and adjudicated
by the Dean of Student Affairs Office. An electronic Code of Academic Conduct Violation Incident
Report is also located in the online College Catalog. Between October 2018 and October 2021, there
were 516 Code of Academic Conduct charges, with 52 percent related to plagiarism, and 36 percent
related to cheating. During that same period, no sanctions were issued for 32 percent of the charges,
31 percent resulted in plagiarism remediation, 25 percent in a disciplinary warning, nine percent in
an informal judicial hearing, one percent in a formal administrative hearing, and one percent in
disciplinary probation.
Sources
Code of Academic Conduct charges
Code of Academic Conduct Violation Incident Report
College Policy Manual
College Policy Manual (page number 227)
Institutional Review Board
Learning Commons copyright plagarism
Media Lab
Research Guides
Sample IRB approval
scheduling tool library reference
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 38

2.S - Criterion 2 - Summary
The institution acts with integrity; its conduct is ethical and responsible.
Summary
The College’s Policy Manual, Catalog, Union Contracts, and Guidebooks all serve as guides for
ethical and responsible behavior by faculty, staff, and students.  In addition, the institution and Board
operates under the Illinois Community College Act, and the Illinois Open Meetings Act, ensuring
integrity and ethical behavior in all aspects of the College’s governance and operations.  
To ensure that staff, faculty, and Trustees understand and follow the College’s policies related to
ethical and responsible conduct, ethics training is provided.
The Illinois General Assembly enacted the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act (Public Act 93-
615), which is a comprehensive revision of State statutes regulating ethical conduct, political
activities, and the solicitation and acceptance of gifts by State officials and employees. In July, 2009,
the Board adopted this as the College of DuPage Ethics Ordnance, and it became Appendix of the
College Policy Manual, and informs College Policies 3.01 (Ethics Policy), 3.02  (Conflicts of
Interests), 3.03 (Economic Interest Disclosures), 3.04 (Related Party Transactions), 3.05
(Employment of Related Parties), and 3.06 (Use of College Resources).
Finally, the College does not tolerate discrimination or harassment of any type, and each of the
College’s four strategy pillars have equity and inclusion goals. 
Sources
There are no sources.
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 39

3 - Teaching and Learning: Quality, Resources and Support
The institution provides quality education, wherever and however its offerings are delivered.
3.A - Core Component 3.A
The rigor of the institution’s academic offerings is appropriate to higher education.
1. Courses and programs are current and require levels of student performance appropriate to the
credential awarded.
2. The institution articulates and differentiates learning goals for its undergraduate, graduate,
post-baccalaureate, post-graduate and certificate programs.
3. The institution’s program quality and learning goals are consistent across all modes of delivery
and all locations (on the main campus, at additional locations, by distance delivery, as dual
credit, through contractual or consortial arrangements, or any other modality).
Argument
3.A.1 Currency, Performance, and Appropriateness
College of DuPage courses and programs are current and require levels of performance by students
appropriate to the credential awarded. The COD faculty contract states that faculty will “perform a
significant role in developing and evaluating all of the institution’s educational programs.” Faculty
develop and update courses and programs based on the needs of the student, community and
marketplace. Several key sources are used to identify appropriate updates to courses: 
Illinois Articulation Initiative requirement changes  
Transfer requirements from 4-year institutions 
Five-year program review findings 
Career & Technical Education Advisory Committee recommendations 
Special Accreditation requirements or changes 
Faculty/professional recommendations 
The Division and College Curriculum Committees review all new and updated courses and programs
before going to the Illinois Community College Board (ICCB) for review and approval. The new
program process includes feasibility analysis (labor market standpoint and demonstrated sustainable
need in the district), program quality in response to identified needs, cost-effectiveness, and financial
support, curriculum information, education and skill requirements, learning assessment, faculty
qualifications and needs, academic control, and cost data. 
Guided by Board Policy 6.02, College of DuPage assigns and awards credit hours in keeping with
commonly accepted practices in higher education, with the federal definition of the credit hour.
Program lengths are measured by credit hour and are consistent with the definitions set by ICCB.
COD’s seven associate degrees require the student to earn at least 64 credits in courses numbered
1000 and above as defined by each degree. 
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 40

Transferability is one additional indicator that COD courses are current, rigorous, and appropriate to
the degree or certificate. The College adheres to the Illinois Articulation Initiative (IAI), ensuring
students can transfer courses to meet most general education requirements of baccalaureate
programs. Faculty submit these courses to the General Education Core Curriculum or a specific
discipline’s panel consisting of faculty from two- and four-year institutions. Panels review IAI
courses every five years to ensure the courses continue to meet standards. 
COD also provides students with several guided opportunities to transfer to four-year institutions.
3+1 agreements, 2+2 agreements, transfer guides by college or university, and discipline transfer
pathway maps are available on the College website and in the College Catalog. COD also has
guaranteed admissions agreements with many popular transfer institutions, such as the Transfer
Admissions Guarantee at University of Illinois Chicago, the Dual Admissions Partnership Program
at DePaul University, and Engineering Pathways with University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign.  
Finally, the College operates under the authority of ICCB Rules 1501.303b and 1501.302, which
govern the awarding of degrees and certificates. Credentials are awarded in accordance with units of
instruction and credit hour ranges as established by ICCB. 
3.A.2 Learning Goals/Outcomes
COD clearly articulates and differentiates learning goals for its degree and certificate programs.
Degree programs require the completion of core General Education (GE) courses. Through these
courses, students gain the seven GE Student Learning Outcomes, which pertain to the broad body of
knowledge and skills that students gain through the degree program. Two of the seven outcomes—
Critical Thinking and Information Literacy—reach across all courses of the GE curriculum. The
other five outcomes align to specific areas of GE coursework that students complete in pursuit of any
associate degree at the College: Cultural and Historical Comprehension (humanities and fine arts),
Expression and Exchange of Ideas (communication), Human Behavior and Societal Knowledge
(social and behavioral sciences), Quantitative Reasoning (mathematics), and Scientific Reasoning
(physical and life sciences).  
COD includes program outcomes on each program of study web page. Course learning objectives are
included on official course syllabi, which faculty include in their Blackboard shells to ensure students
have access to information about what they will learn in the course. 
3.A.3 Consistency
COD’s program quality and learning goals are consistent across all modalities and locations. Courses
are delivered through face-to-face, online synchronous (VCM), online asynchronous (NET), hybrid,
and dual credit formats. All courses have a Master Syllabus within the curriculum management
software that defines: curricular area; course title; credit hours (lecture, lab, clinical, etc.); Illinois
Articulation Initiative (IAI) status; course description; prerequisites; learning objectives; topical
outline, faculty sponsorship, and methods of student evaluation. Regardless of delivery mode, all
courses are based on the same Master Syllabus. This ensures that learning objectives are consistent
across modalities, sections, and instructors. Faculty include the objectives from the Master Syllabus
on their official course syllabi and share those syllabi on Blackboard. 
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 41

All students earning credentials at COD meet the same requirements regardless of the location of the
courses that make up the credential. Degree and certificate requirements are shared with students in
the Catalog. Students can also monitor progress and run a degree audit through the student portal. 
Throughout the COVID-19 pandemic, the College has provided support to help faculty and students
meet program quality standards. Additional faculty supports are ongoing since March 2020,
including workshops and online resources through Learning Technologies, Faculty Professional
Development, the Adjunct Faculty Support office, and Learning Assessment. Student supports
include a dedicated Online Learning section of the COD website; videos to help students understand
their learning options during COVID-19; and remote tutoring and course assistance, testing,
advising, technology loans, and access to Library collections and support, to name a few. 
Dual credit courses taught at District high schools meet the same standards as college-level courses
taught on the College of DuPage campus. Dual credit sections meet the same learning objectives as
other COD sections of the same course, and students must meet the same qualifications for course
entry (e.g. placement test scores and prerequisites). State of Illinois laws and Illinois Community
College Board (ICCB) policies regarding dual credit instructor qualifications are followed for dual
credit courses. 
Sources
3.A.1_3.B.1 and 3.B.2_ICCB Rules 1501.303b and 1501.302
3.A.1_3.B.1 and 3.B.2_ICCB Rules 1501.303b and 1501.302 (page number 32)
3.A.1_3.B.4_3.C.1_4.A.2_4.A.4_CODFA Agreement
3.A.1_3.B.4_3.C.1_4.A.2_4.A.4_CODFA Agreement (page number 24)
3.A.1_3.C.6_Board Policy 6.02 (page 236)
3.A.1_3.C.6_Board Policy 6.02 (page 236) (page number 236)
3.A.1_3+1 Bachelor_s Degree Programs _ College of DuPage
3.A.1_4.A.4_College Curriculum Committee
3.A.1_4.A.4_Division Curriculum Committees
3.A.1_COD Engineering Pathways
3.A.1_DePaul University Dual Admissions Partnership Program (DAPP)
3.A.1_General Education Core Curriculum
3.A.1_Ilinois Articulation Initiative
3.A.1_Transfer Map examples
3.A.1_UIC Transfer Admissions Guarantee (TAG)
3.A.2_4.B_associate-arts-degree-requirements
3.A.2_programs of study web page
3.A.3_3.B.1 and 3.B.2_3.D.1_technology loans
3.A.3_3.B.1 and 3.B.2_degree
3.A.3_3.B.3_3.D.1_student technology loans
3.A.3_3.D.2_online_remote tutoring and course assistance
3.A.3_3.D.4_collections
3.A.3_Adjunct Faculty Support
3.A.3_advising
3.A.3_certificate
3.A.3_Degree Audit
3.A.3_Faculty Professional Development
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 42

3.A.3_Learning Assessment
3.A.3_Learning Technologies
3.A.3_Online Learning
3.A.3_online learning options video
3.A.3_Partnership Guide Final
3.A.3_support
3.A.3_testing
CIT 1111_ Computer and Hardware Maintenance
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 43

3.B - Core Component 3.B
The institution offers programs that engage students in collecting, analyzing and communicating
information; in mastering modes of intellectual inquiry or creative work; and in developing skills
adaptable to changing environments.
1. The general education program is appropriate to the mission, educational offerings and degree
levels of the institution. The institution articulates the purposes, content and intended learning
outcomes of its undergraduate general education requirements.
2. The program of general education is grounded in a philosophy or framework developed by the
institution or adopted from an established framework. It imparts broad knowledge and
intellectual concepts to students and develops skills and attitudes that the institution believes
every college-educated person should possess.
3. The education offered by the institution recognizes the human and cultural diversity and
provides students with growth opportunities and lifelong skills to live and work in a
multicultural world.
4. The faculty and students contribute to scholarship, creative work and the discovery of
knowledge to the extent appropriate to their offerings and the institution’s mission.
Argument
3.B.1 and 3.B.2 General Education Framework
College of DuPage provides General Education (GE) in alignment with our mission of providing
students with a comprehensive education. Degree students gain a range of knowledge, skills, and
abilities through their work in the GE courses. All degree programs, with the exception of
Engineering Pathways, require at least 18 credits in general education courses. 
The College designed its GE framework to ensure degree graduates gain “a broad body of knowledge
and skills common to all educated people, regardless of their profession.” Faculty aligned the GE
Student Learning Outcomes, which Faculty Senate reaffirmed in 2018, to the GE curriculum. This
alignment ensures degree graduates gain specific knowledge and skills through GE coursework. The
strong GE curriculum includes courses in the humanities and fine arts (Cultural and Historical
Comprehension); communication (Expression and Exchange of Ideas); mathematics (Quantitative
Reasoning); physical and life sciences (Scientific Reasoning); and social and behavioral sciences
(Human Behavior and Societal Knowledge). The Critical Thinking and Information Literacy GE
Outcomes are integrated throughout the GE curriculum. General Education  outcomes are
communicated to students on the COD website and on posters throughout campus. 
As noted in the College’s Course Catalog, all associate degrees require a minimum of 64 total
credits. Those credits include the required GE coursework. The College also operates under the
authority of ICCB Rules 1501.303b and 1501.302, which govern the awarding of degrees and
certificates. Credentials are awarded in accordance with units of instruction and credit hour ranges as
established by ICCB. 
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 44

3.B.3 Human and Cultural Diversity
College of DuPage offers education that recognizes human and cultural diversity and provides
students with growth and skills to live and work in a multicultural world. The College’s “Equity”
Value guides these efforts, stating “We expect that everyone in our college community has an equal
opportunity to pursue their academic, personal and professional goals.” Equity also forms one of the
supporting structures for the Strategic Pillars in COD’s Strategic Long Range Plan. 
COD students completing associate degrees complete a Social and Behavioral Sciences requirement,
at least one course in Human Relations and at least one course in Global/Multicultural Studies. This
work ensures students have awareness around human and cultural diversity, and the work aligns with
the Human Behavior and Societal Knowledge and Cultural and Historical Comprehension GE
learning outcomes. 
Students are offered many other opportunities to interact with various issues relating to human and
cultural diversity. The College's Center for Student Diversity, Equity and Inclusion promotes
inclusive excellence through its four goals: building social understanding, expanding cultural
awareness, fostering unity, and intentional belonging. The Center engages students through
programming (e.g. Black History Month, Latino Outreach, and Inclusive Excellence Peer
Mentoring). The Board of Trustees recently approved funding to expand this work into a
Multicultural Center for students. Student Life is partnering with SpeakOut to offer the Race, Power
and Privilege E-Course to help students grow and thrive in a diverse campus setting. Students can
also engage in a number of programs through Field and Experiential Learning, Study Abroad and
Global Education, including a number of on-campus global education programs.  
Several student clubs provide additional opportunities for students to connect regarding human and
cultural diversity. Clubs include the Black Student Alliance, Casa de Amigos, and Hands Up
(American Sign Language) Club. Cultural events at the College, online and in person, include the
COD African American Read-In, Global Flicks, and the Visiting Artist Series. COD in Lingua is a
scholarship journal providing students with the opportunity to publish foreign language work
exploring diverse cultural experiences. 
The Equity and Access Team provides leadership and support for campus-wide equity initiatives.
This cross-constituency group supports the institutional goal of eliminating completion gaps among
Black, Latinx and under-resourced students through the College’s Equity Plan. It also helps bring
resources and other campus equity initiatives under one umbrella to better support students, faculty,
staff, and the community. Examples include the Fuel Pantry, student technology loans, Chaps Unite
Against Racism, Library resources, inclusive teaching resources, and antiracism and inclusivity
learning resources. 
Despite challenges due to COVID-19, the work continues to support and bring international students
to campus. The International Student Services area assists prospective students in applying for a visa
for admission to COD. The International Student Services office also provides F-1 immigration
advising, employment assistance, cross-cultural and personal advising, and logistical help to internal
students as they pursue studies at the College. As part of the Community College Consortium, COD
offers the Community College Initiative Program. The program provides participants with a one-
year, non-degree academic program, and participants contribute by helping internationalize the
campus. 
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 45

3.B.4 Scholarship, Creative Work, and the Discovery of Knowledge
Faculty and students contribute to scholarship, creative work, and the discovery of knowledge. The
GE program and GE Learning Outcomes include work in information literacy, humanities and fine
arts, physical and life sciences, and social and behavioral sciences. This coursework provides degree
graduates with the opportunity to work with faculty in classes, pursuing their own research and
creative work. 
Student scholarship and creative work is showcased through publications, art exhibitions, theater and
music productions, and more. COD in Lingua, Essai, Prairie Light Review, and The Courier,
demonstrate students’ high-quality writing and artistry. Students showcase works of art at two
student art galleries, the Wings Gallery and Techcetera Gallery, while the Cleve Carney Museum of
Art and permanent art collection provide opportunities for students and community members to
reflect and be inspired by others’ artwork. Theater and music courses and productions provide
students with several opportunities each year to practice performance skills for the community.
Students also have access to the McAninch Arts Center, which enriches student and community
learning and cultural experiences through diverse programming alongside engagement programs
before or after performances. Academic programs across the College provide opportunities for
students to share their work with the community. Animation Night is an annual event showcasing the
work of student animators from the Motion Picture/Television program. College of DuPage Library's
Annual Student Research Symposium highlights student research, such as papers, presentations,
posters, objects, and theatrical and musical performances. The Cleve Carney Museum of Art, 2021
Frida Kahlo exhibit included floral arrangements created by Horticulture students; a cake designed by
Culinary Arts students; and a replica of one of Kahlo’s most iconic dresses re-created by the Fashion
Studies program. 
Faculty actively engage in their fields and stay current in their disciplines in several ways, sharing
scholarly publications and creative activities through a variety of venues. DigitalCommons@COD is
an open-access repository maintained by the Library that collects, preserves, and showcases scholarly,
educational, and creative works created by the College community. This repository facilitates global
discovery of and access to COD's intellectual output while providing a stable, long-term home for
digital scholarship. All faculty, staff, and faculty-sponsored students are encouraged to publish works
in DigitalCommons@COD. The collection includes more than 10,000 entries that have been
downloaded over 2.7 million times since 2005. College of DuPage Digital Press provides open source
access to textbooks written by faculty to help students keep course costs low. Events such as
Humanities Fest provide forums for faculty to share and discuss their scholarship with the College
community. Music Fridays concerts include “faculty spotlights” in a free, accessible daytime series of
music performances. 
Scholarship and professional learning are also built into regular faculty work. Research contributions
can be used toward faculty range changes. Faculty can apply for sabbatical leave “to improve the
quality of the faculty member’s services so that the faculty member, the College and our students
benefit from the faculty member’s leave experience.” This work includes both scholarship and
improving teaching and resources for students. Faculty complete a presentation or shared report to
appropriate colleagues within six months of returning from sabbatical. 
Sources
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 46

2020-2021 Student Research Symposium _
3.A.1_3.B.1 and 3.B.2_ICCB Rules 1501.303b and 1501.302
3.A.1_3.B.1 and 3.B.2_ICCB Rules 1501.303b and 1501.302 (page number 32)
3.A.1_3.B.4_3.C.1_4.A.2_4.A.4_CODFA Agreement
3.A.1_3.B.4_3.C.1_4.A.2_4.A.4_CODFA Agreement (page number 74)
3.A.1_3.B.4_3.C.1_4.A.2_4.A.4_CODFA Agreement (page number 77)
3.A.3_3.B.1 and 3.B.2_degree
3.A.3_3.B.3_3.D.1_student technology loans
3.B.1 and 3.B.2_4.B_associate-arts-degree-requirements
3.B.1 and 3.B.2_Mission Vision and Values
3.B.1 and 3.B.2_Website_General Education Student Learning Outcomes
3.B.3_[Equity} Mission Vision and Values.pdf
3.B.3_[Library]Cultural Diversity Resources_College of DuPage Library
3.B.3_25_26_39_College of DuPage 2021-2023 Academic Catalog
3.B.3_25_26_39_College of DuPage 2021-2023 Academic Catalog (page number 26)
3.B.3_25_26_39_College of DuPage 2021-2023 Academic Catalog (page number 39)
3.B.3_3.B.4_COD in Lingua_College Publications_College of DuPage
3.B.3_3.B.4_COD in Lingua_College Publications_College of DuPage2
3.B.3_3.D.1_Black History Month 2022_Center for Student Diversity Equity and Inclusion
3.B.3_3.D.1_Fuel Pantry _ Office of Student Life
3.B.3_3.D.1_Inclusive Excellence Peer Mentoring (IEPM) Program_Center for Student
Diversity Equity and Inclusion
3.B.3_3.D.1_Latino Outreach_Center for Student Diversity Equity and Inclusion
3.B.3_4.C.1_Strategic Long Range Plan
3.B.3_Antiracism and Inclusivity Resources_College of DuPage
3.B.3_Center for Student Diversity Equity and Inclusion
3.B.3_Chaps Unite Against Racism
3.B.3_COD African American Read-In_COD Library at College of DuPage
3.B.3_Community College Initiative Program
3.B.3_Equity and Access Team
3.B.3_Field and Experiential Learning Study Abroad and Global Education
3.B.3_Global Education on Campus_College of DuPage
3.B.3_Global Flicks_McAninch Arts Center
3.B.3_Inclusive Teaching – Teaching Learning and Practice
3.B.3_International Students
3.B.3_Race Power and Privilege E-Course
3.B.3_Student Organizations
3.B.3_Visiting Artist Series_CCMA
3.B.4_3.D.4_McAninch Arts Center
3.B.4_Animation-Night-Web-Flyer
3.B.4_Cleve Carney Museum of Art_CCMA
3.B.4_College Music - McAninch Arts Center
3.B.4_College of DuPage Digital Press.pdf
3.B.4_College Theater - McAninch Arts Center
3.B.4_DigitalCommons_College of DuPage Research
3.B.4_ESSAI_College Publications_College of DuPage
3.B.4_ESSAI_College Publications_College of DuPage2
3.B.4_HumFest-2022-Poster-85x11-Final (1)
3.B.4_Music Fridays - McAninch Arts Center
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 47

3.B.4_Page 4_[Khalo] College of DuPage Engage Vol. 2 No. 2
3.B.4_Page 4_[Khalo] College of DuPage Engage Vol. 2 No. 2 (page number 4)
3.B.4_Permanent Collection_CCMA
3.B.4_The Courier_College Publications_College of DuPage
3.B.4_The Courier_College Publications_College of DuPage2
3.B.4_The Prairie Light Review_College Publications_College of DuPage
3.B.4_The Prairie Light Review_College Publications_College of DuPage2
3.B.4_Wings Gallery and Techcetera Gallery_CCMA
Equity Plan 8 14 2020 Final
Gen Ed Learning Outcomes Flyer
Gen Ed Learning Outcomes Flyer outcomes-back
Gen Ed Learning Outcomes poster-front
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 48

3.C - Core Component 3.C
The institution has the faculty and staff needed for effective, high-quality programs and student
services.
1. The institution strives to ensure that the overall composition of its faculty and staff reflects
human diversity as appropriate within its mission and for the constituencies it serves.
2. The institution has sufficient numbers and continuity of faculty members to carry out both the
classroom and the non-classroom roles of faculty, including oversight of the curriculum and
expectations for student performance, assessment of student learning, and establishment of
academic credentials for instructional staff.
3. All instructors are appropriately qualified, including those in dual credit, contractual and
consortial offerings.
4. Instructors are evaluated regularly in accordance with established institutional policies and
procedures.
5. The institution has processes and resources for assuring that instructors are current in their
disciplines and adept in their teaching roles; it supports their professional development.
6. Instructors are accessible for student inquiry.
7. Staff members providing student support services, such as tutoring, financial aid advising,
academic advising and cocurricular activities, are appropriately qualified, trained and
supported in their professional development.
Argument
3.C.1 Faculty and Staff Diversity
College of DuPage is actively working to improve the overall composition of its faculty and staff to
better reflect the student population. Currently, the College proactively posts open positions to many
diversity-oriented job boards. All hiring managers and search committee participants are required to
complete diversity training. Internal practice requires that at two stages of the search process at least
18% of full-time candidate pools identify as diverse.
Despite these efforts, the College’s staff and faculty do not reflect the diversity of the student
population. This concern is being addressed through one of the strategies within our Equity Plan:
Employee Recruitment and Hiring Practices through an Equity Lens. Human Resources, College
leadership, and the Employee Recruitment and Hiring Practices Subteam are working to identify
areas where new policies and practices can improve staff and faculty demographics to better reflect
the diversity of the student body. As of November 20, 2020, the overall number of Latinx employees
increased by 18% over a two-year timeframe, including a 23% increase in teaching faculty and an
increase in administration from 2 to 4. However, the overall number of Black employees decreased by
10% over the same time, with Black teaching faculty decreasing 15%, and administration increasing
from 3 to 5.
More recent improvements include:
The Employee Recruitment subteam created a list of disciplinary websites and organizations,
which Human Resources is using to recruit diverse faculty.
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 49

Human Resources is using the "D" designation for COD postings on HigherEdJobs.com to
indicate the College "actively encourages applications from diverse candidates."
This spring, 13 tenure track faculty searches are underway. The subteam plans to review the searches
to determine if they 1) reached the 18% diversity mark, 2) included diverse finalists, and 3) resulted
in diverse hires.
3.C.2 Faculty Responsibilities
In fall 2021, COD had 264 full-time and 957 adjunct faculty carrying out classroom and non-
classroom duties. Full-time faculty taught approximately 38 percent of sections, and qualified adjunct
faculty taught 62 percent.
Faculty assignments, workload, evaluation, and duties (including oversight of the curriculum and
expectations for student performance; establishment of academic credentials for instructional staff,
non-classroom committee work, etc.) are guided by the full-time and adjunct faculty contracts.
Discipline/Program chairs use reassigned time for responsibilities including:
Leading the curriculum process;
Developing class schedule and teaching assignments;
Developing and writing Student Outcomes Assessment Projects (SOAPs);
Addressing student complaints and elevating to the Dean as needed; and
Providing leadership to Discipline/Program faculty.
Faculty within the disciplines conduct student learning assessment through Student Outcomes
Assessment Projects (SOAPs), led by Discipline/Program chairs. When developing SOAPs, faculty
are encouraged to use tools like Blackboard Outcomes, Blackboard EAC, and help from the
Assessment Office to align course and program assessment with authentic student work. These tools
help streamline the measurement of student learning.
Finally, faculty participate on institutional committees as part of their service to the College. For
example, faculty from across the College serve two-year terms on the College and Division
Curriculum Committees, and to ensure continuity no more than 50 percent of members are expected
to complete a term in a given year.
3.C.3 Faculty Qualifications
Instructors are appropriately qualified. College of DuPage follows:
ICCB Rule 1501.303f: Professional staff shall be educated and prepared in accordance with
generally accepted standards and practices for teaching, supervising, counseling and
administering the curriculum or supporting system to which they are assigned. Such
preparation may include collegiate study and professional experience. Graduate work through
the master’s degree in the assigned field or area of responsibility is expected, except in those
areas in which the work experience and related training is the principal learning
Dual Credit Endorsement for High School Teachers, as designated in 110 ILCS 27/Dual Credit
Quality Act.
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 50

Higher Learning Commission's Assumed Practice for Faculty Roles and Qualifications.
Clear Hiring Guidelines for all full-time and part-time faculty are maintained that align with hiring
guidelines established by the Illinois Community College Board (ICCB). Human Resources also
maintains a master list of qualifications needed to teach each course at the College. All faculty job
descriptions set forth minimum academic and/or work related experience credentials. These
credentials are the same for full-time and adjunct faculty. Faculty who teach dual credit courses in
district high schools are subject to academic credentialing defined by the State of Illinois in response
to 110 ILCS 27/Illinois Dual Credit Quality Act.
The Faculty Transcript/Hiring Guideline Evaluation form documents faculty hire qualifications.
Human Resources maintains these forms along with transcripts and related materials. All prospective
faculty hires are screened by the appropriate faculty chair, Dean and, when relevant, the Assistant
Dean for Adjunct Faculty Support. The Adjunct Faculty Support office is responsible for gathering all
the necessary forms and verifications for adjunct credentialing to share with Human Resources.
3.C.4 Faculty Evaluations
COD instructors are evaluated regularly in accordance with established institutional policies and
procedures. Full-time faculty are evaluated on a cycle according to Section D9, Assessment and
Evaluation, of the full-time faculty contract based on teaching, advising, curriculum development,
institutional committee work, and other relevant activities. As part of the formal Phase II evaluation
cycle, faculty are required to administer student evaluations in a minimum of three classes; the
results of student evaluations are included in the formal review of faculty. Tenured faculty are
evaluated as part of a three-year evaluation cycle. Full-time probationary faculty (non-tenured) are
evaluated every term during the probationary period. Evaluation of probationary faculty includes a
classroom observation and the administration of student evaluations every term. New adjunct
instructors are observed during their first semester teaching at the College, and continuing instructors
are observed on a rotating cycle as determined by the Divisions and the Assistant Dean of Adjunct
Faculty Support. Student feedback surveys are administered electronically every semester for all
sections taught by adjunct faculty.
3.C.5 Faculty Professional Development
Processes and resources are in place for assuring that instructors are current in their disciplines and
adept in their teaching roles; it supports their professional development.
The College has six days in the annual Academic Calendar, known as In-Service, which are devoted
to professional development. During these six days, faculty attend all-college and faculty sessions as
well as programming specific to their teaching roles within the institution. Many of the sessions are
presented by COD faculty, which encourages exchange of knowledge and ideas across divisions.
Recent themes included Creating a Culture of Caring: Equity and Student Success; Recovering Our
Bandwidth: Equity, Advocacy, and Renewal; and Critical Thinking Assessment and Improvement.
Adjunct faculty are invited to attend relevant programs during this time.
The Faculty Professional Development (FPD) Program comprises the Faculty Chair of Professional
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 51

Development, the Employee Development Center, Adjunct Faculty Support, and Learning
Technologies. The EDC, which supports professional development for all employees, manages the
Cornerstone system which allows participants to search for training opportunities, enroll in sessions,
view transcripts of completed courses, and store resources and recordings of training sessions.
FPD Program elements include:
Online FPD resources including the Teaching Commons and the Teaching, Learning, and
Practice FPD blog
Courses and Workshops – provide full-time and adjunct faculty development opportunities that
support teaching, learning, and practice. Workshop and course offerings are available for
registration in the Cornerstone system.
Equity, Access, and Inclusive Teaching - supports COD’s commitment to eliminating racial
and socioeconomic gaps in student success. The program works in collaboration with the
Equity and Access Team to provide professional development to faculty, staff, and students
around topics supporting equity, inclusion, and diversity.
FPD Advisory Committee - supports and informs the Faculty Chair of Professional
Development in defining, meeting, and assessing the goals of the FPD program. The Advisory
Committee conducted a needs assessment and focus groups 2018-2019, which helped guide the
FPD Strategic Plan. A reassessment is planned for fall 2022, followed by a recalibration of the
Strategic Plan.
In-Service - The Faculty Chair of Professional Development collaborates with the Provost's
Office in developing in-service professional development sessions, including breakout sessions,
keynote speakers, workshops, and more.
New Faculty Institute (NFI) - a hybrid, year-long program for newly hired full-time faculty,
designed to orient new full-time faculty to the College; help new faculty strengthen their
instructional practice and develop reflective habits around teaching; and create a community of
practice among new faculty during their first three years.
On-Demand Resources – provide FPD resources for faculty in asynchronous format, including
Magna Commons and Teaching Guides.
Each full-time faculty member has up to $1,850 in Development and Renewal Funds per year for job
related professional development that improves or develops their skills. Full-time faculty are also
required to complete six clock hours of professional development each year, in addition to the
opportunity to apply for a one-year sabbatical or a one semester non-teaching leave for professional
development.
The Office of Adjunct Faculty Support (OAFS) provides additional professional development and
teaching support to adjunct faculty. In addition to providing onboarding, communications, and online
resources to help keep adjunct faculty connected to the College, the office leads the adjunct faculty
evaluation process. The office works to ensure the classroom observation process generates a
supportive conversation about teaching effectiveness. After classroom observations are complete,
adjunct faculty meet with OAFS to have a constructive conversation about teaching effectiveness.  An
intended outcome of the conference is for adjunct faculty to identify professional development goals
with continued support from the division and OAFS.
Learning Technologies (LT) provides additional support to keep instructors current in teaching and
learning practices. LT supports the college's mission of academic excellence and student success
through collaborative support such as:
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 52

Instructional design and LMS (currently Blackboard) technology support to full-time and
adjunct faculty.
Innovative uses of LMS technology and other learning technology tools that will improve
student success, academic excellence, and enhance the student experience in their educational
pursuits.
Training in current and emerging LMS technologies for use across modalities.
Specific LT opportunities for faculty development around teaching include:
Asynchronous training sessions (which includes Foundations of Online Teaching and self-
paced Blackboard Basics sections) to enhance the development of online courses, implement
teaching best practices, master LMS functionality, learn additional COD licensed tools, and try
other instructional technologies within a learning community.
Blackboard Ally, an accessibility-based application directly integrated into the system.
Zoom, Blackboard Collaborate Ultra, and YuJa multimedia management, including closed
captioning.
A searchable knowledge base developed and managed by Learning Technologies featuring
tutorials on using Blackboard, the YuJa multimedia platform, and other COD specific tools.
Full-time and adjunct faculty also have access to all-employee learning opportunities offered through
the Employee Development Center.
3.C.6 Faculty Accessibility
To ensure that students have access to faculty, during the academic year full-time faculty maintain at
least 10 office hours per week per the faculty contract. In response to COVID-19 restrictions, a
Memorandum of Understanding modified in-person office hours to ensure students had access to
faculty in a manner proportional to the modality of their classes.
Contact information including office hours are required on the syllabus for each class. In addition,
many faculty members maintain a page in the faculty directory on the College of DuPage website
noting office phone number, e-mail, and office hours. Faculty office hours are reviewed by the
division. Full-time faculty have private offices, and adjunct faculty have dedicated shared space to
meet with students.
3.C.7 Staff Qualifications and Professional Development
Staff members providing student support services, such as tutoring, financial aid advising, academic
advising, and co-curricular activities, are appropriately qualified, trained and supported in their
professional development. The College abides by Board Policy 4.02 “to ensure that individuals who
join the College’s workforce or are promoted to positions within the College are qualified for the
positions for which they have applied and have accurately presented their qualifications during the
hiring process.” The policy provides rules for reference checks, background screenings, and security
sensitive positions.
The hiring process takes place through a module in the Cornerstone system that allows potential
candidates to search for jobs and COD staff and faculty to manage the recruitment and hiring
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 53

process. This system helps ensure that individuals are qualified for positions to which they have
applied.
Staff are adequately prepared to work in a student support environment and complete training
specific to their department. For example, Student Financial Assistance staff earn National
Association of Student Financial Aid Administrators (NASFAA) credentials. In the Learning
Commons, the Math Assistance Area is staffed by non-teaching part time faculty as well as full-time
mathematics faculty who assist by “donating” their office hours to work in Math Assistance. Writing,
Reading, Speech Assistance coaches and Tutoring Services tutors are both peers and professional
part-time non-teaching faculty.
New staff members undergo a probationary period to ensure an appropriate fit with the position. All
staff members are reviewed annually. As part of this process, employee’s create and track
performance goals in Cornerstone. Employee goals are based on supervisor/department goals,
division annual plans, and tie back to the Strategic Long Range Plan (SLRP). Employees and
supervisors:
Collaboratively set goals in 1:1 meetings, department/team meetings, or retreats.
Discuss the applicability of the SLRP.
Record goal updates in Cornerstone during quarterly check-ins.
The Employee Development Center (EDC) offers professional development opportunities to staff
members. Schedules are posted in Cornerstone, and nearly 1,000 individual sessions have been
offered since 2019. Full-time staff can also use up to $1,850 per year in professional development
funds to add value to the College through employee development.
Sources
3.A.1_3.B.4_3.C.1_4.A.2_4.A.4_CODFA Agreement
3.A.1_3.B.4_3.C.1_4.A.2_4.A.4_CODFA Agreement (page number 12)
3.A.1_3.B.4_3.C.1_4.A.2_4.A.4_CODFA Agreement (page number 20)
3.A.1_3.B.4_3.C.1_4.A.2_4.A.4_CODFA Agreement (page number 32)
3.A.1_3.B.4_3.C.1_4.A.2_4.A.4_CODFA Agreement (page number 36)
3.A.1_3.B.4_3.C.1_4.A.2_4.A.4_CODFA Agreement (page number 37)
3.A.1_3.B.4_3.C.1_4.A.2_4.A.4_CODFA Agreement (page number 74)
3.A.1_3.C.6_Board Policy 6.02 (Page 156)
3.A.1_3.C.6_Board Policy 6.02 (Page 156) (page number 156)
3.C.1_4.C.1_Illinois Equity in Attainment Initiative Equity Plan
3.C.1_4.C.1_Illinois Equity in Attainment Initiative Equity Plan (page number 32)
3.C.2_codaa-agreement
3.C.3_4.A.4_Faculty_credentials_ENDORSEMENT_ONLY_Final
3.C.3_Faculty Transcript Evaluation
3.C.3_Hiring Guidelines Sorted by Discipline
3.C.4_Observation Process _ adjunctfaculty
3.C.5_[designed to] NFI Revision outline - Google Docs
3.C.5_2021-january-in-service-agenda
3.C.5_adjunct faculty sessions
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 54

3.C.5_Agenda October 2020 In-Service
3.C.5_cornerstone
3.C.5_faculty pd sessions
3.C.5_FPD course and workshops
3.C.5_fpd focus groups
3.C.5_FPD Strategic Plan.Google Docs
3.C.5_FPD Teaching Guides - COD Library at College of DuPage
3.C.5_fpd_needs-assessment_results_2018
3.C.5_FPDAC – Teaching Learning Practice
3.C.5_Inclusive Teaching – Teaching Learning Practice
3.C.5_In-Service – Teaching Learning Practice
3.C.5_Learning Technologies at College of DuPage _ Making teaching with tech super
awesome!
3.C.5_learning technologies sessions
3.C.5_LT knowledge base.pdf
3.C.5_magna.pdf
3.C.5_new adjunct instructors
3.C.5_NFI Schedules 2019-2022.Google Docs
3.C.5_oafs.pdf
3.C.5_public-copy-of-2021-august-in-service-agenda
3.C.5_public-copy-of-2021-august-in-service-agenda (page number 4)
3.C.5_Teaching Commons
3.C.5_Teaching Learning Practice blog.pdf
3.C.6_Faculty Staff Website Directory.pdf
3.C.6_hours
3.C.6_MOU COVID-19 Fall 2021 fully executed 8.19.21
3.C.6_page of faculty directory
3.C.7_Evaluation - Classified and Managerial Probationary (New or Transferred Employee)
3.C.7_SFA staff earn.pdf
3.C.7_staff employee development
EmployeeGoalsTrainingFY22
Example Team Goals
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 55

3.D - Core Component 3.D
The institution provides support for student learning and resources for effective teaching.
1. The institution provides student support services suited to the needs of its student populations.
2. The institution provides for learning support and preparatory instruction to address the
academic needs of its students. It has a process for directing entering students to courses and
programs for which the students are adequately prepared.
3. The institution provides academic advising suited to its offerings and the needs of its students.
4. The institution provides to students and instructors the infrastructure and resources necessary
to support effective teaching and learning (technological infrastructure, scientific laboratories,
libraries, performance spaces, clinical practice sites and museum collections, as appropriate to
the institution’s offerings).
Argument
3.D.1 Support Services
College of DuPage provides student support services suited to the needs of our students. Student
needs are addressed through New Student Orientation; Campus Central; Counseling, Advising, and
Transfer Services; Student Financial Assistance; Student Life; and more. Support services and
resources have been provided virtually as needed during the COVID-19 pandemic. Support for
learning, instruction, and academic need are discussed in sections 3.D.2 and 3, below. 
New Student Orientation (NSO) welcomes new students, introduces them to services, and encourages
them to become involved in the COD community. Recently NSO has been held virtually as needed, in
accordance with COVID-19 protocols. The NSO team strives to help students learn about the many
opportunities available to them as they begin their time at the College. In 2021-22, approximately
1,000 students, parents, and friends were welcomed through Virtual NSO.
The Student Services Center (SSC) is centrally located and serves as the “front door” for the campus.
When students enter the building, they find Campus Central, where they can get information about
key services including applying, registering for classes, financial assistance, setting up and
navigating COD’s myACCESS and Student Planning systems, testing and prerequisite information,
payment plans, student records, veterans services, and graduation. Assistance for non-English
speakers and online help are also available. In addition to being the hub for these student services,
the SSC provides spaces for students to engage in Student Life activities, congregate, study, and
connect to the College. 
Counseling, Advising, and Transfer Services provides new and current students and members of the
community with personalized service and comprehensive resources. Admitted students have access to
free confidential services in academic advising, career counseling, and personal counseling, with
appointments available virtually, in-person, and over the phone. In addition to academic advising and
counseling addressed in 3.D.3, the College’s team of faculty Counselors provide personal counseling
and mental health resources; workshops; and specialized services such as the First Generation Group
Series. 
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 56

The Office of Student Financial Assistance (OSFA) helps bridge the gap between students’ financial
resources and the cost of education. Students are encouraged to apply for financial assistance such as
Federal and State Grants, Federal Work Study, Scholarships, and Federal Direct Loans. OSFA
provides one-on-one assistance including online appointments, FAFSA Completion Sessions, and
Financial Aid Webinars. OSFA has also helped distribute Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund
(HEERF I, II, III) funds from the Department of Education to students who are financially impacted
by the COVID-19 pandemic. So far in 2021-22, OSFA has responded to over 14,000 calls, 5,500
emails, and provided in-person support to over 5,000 students.
COD’s diverse student body has access to a variety of resources to address their personal needs and
goals while attending college. The Center for Student Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion engages
students through programming including Black History Month, Latino Outreach, and Inclusive
Excellence Peer Mentoring. The Fuel Pantry provides food for COD students and employees facing
food insecurity. This initiative provided nearly 30,000 pounds of food to over 200 clients and their
families in 2021. LGBTQIA+ resources include Pride Alliance and Safe Zone training for employees
and students, with approximately 200 current employees fully trained as Safe Zone members.
Veterans Services provides assistance with veteran and military benefits, referrals to student
resources, counseling, employment, internship opportunities, and a dedicated Veterans Lounge. The
Honors Program offers honors classes and activities for students interested in academic enrichment. 
Student clubs and organizations encourage social interaction and a connection with communities of
students through academic/pre-professional interests, cultural/ethnic connections, honor societies,
leadership, service, and more. This academic year, the College has nearly 50 active clubs and
organizations, with approximately 10 more working to achieve active status. These clubs include four
newly chartered clubs and 166 student officers. Although there are fewer clubs than the high of
approximately 90 pre-pandemic, these indicators show that student interest in engaging with student
life is once again growing.
The Living Leadership Program offered by Student Life is committed to the development of student
leaders and student organizations on campus. The program welcomed 51 new members this year and
hosted 30 development opportunities (virtual, in-person, and hybrid). The program focuses on
students interested in building their leadership skills and confidence while actively participating in
the COD community. The program is divided into two phases: Phase 1 develops practical leadership
skills through workshops and involvement in student life, and Phase 2 expands skills in areas such as
servant leadership, ethical leadership, articulating a vision, and developing a personal leadership
philosophy. 
Students receive technology assistance through the Information Technology Services Student Help
Desk, Academic Computing Labs, and student laptop, hotspot, and webcam loans. The Student Help
Desk supports technology needs and answers questions seven days a week through phone and email
requests. This support includes issues with logins, email, and the LMS/Blackboard. Academic
Computing Labs are also open seven days a week throughout the semester. Students can request
laptop, hotspot, and webcam loans through a form on the Library website. 
Career Services helps students prepare for marketable careers, write resumes, develop interview
skills, and learn other strategies to transition to employment. Students can attend Career Preparation
Webinars and access electronic resources, in addition to meeting with a Career Services Specialist.
From fall 2020 through fall 2021, Career Services had nearly 750 virtual and in-person one-on-one
appointments with job seekers, and over 1,000 students used the VMock resume review platform. In
its first semester on campus (fall 2021), students created over 1,600 practice interview responses in
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 57

the new Big Interview preparation platform.
3.D.2 Placement and Learning Support
The College provides learning support and preparatory instruction to address the academic needs of
its students. This process includes placement into courses and programs for which students are
adequately prepared. 
Placement 
The College provides several opportunities for placement to ensure students can enroll in the courses
appropriate to their level. The faculty in English and Mathematics establish eligibility rules and cut
scores. The Testing Center administers placement tests, when needed. Information is shared with
students on the COD website, and the Learning Commons offers review workshops to help students
prepare for placement tests. 
English (Reading and Writing): English placement ensures students meet prerequisites for English
courses as well as some other entry-level courses. Multiple modes by which students can demonstrate
competency are offered:
2.6 cumulative non-weighted GPA on a 4.0 scale, or 3.25/5.0, with a minimum of 7 high
school semesters.  
ACT composite score of 20 or SAT total score of 950 or higher. 
Associate degree, BA/BS degree, or graduate degree. 
College-level credit totaling 12 semester hours with at least a “C” average (only meets reading
requirement). 
ACCUPLACER transferred from another institution. 
ACCUPLACER Next-Generation Reading score of 246 or higher. 
ACCUPLACER Next-Generation Writing score of 250 or higher. 
Non-native English speakers can also use TOEFL, IELTS, or KITE placement scores. 
Guided Self-Placement. 
In response to the suspension of Accuplacer and based on national best practices in English
placement, the College designed the Guided Self-Placement (GSP) tool for students who do not meet
any of the other placement criteria for English courses. The English department also continues to
expand offerings for students who are not College-ready through the Accelerated Learning Program
(ALP), a co-requisite model that combines college-level English with supplemental instructional
hours provided by the same instructor. ALP is particularly successful for students of color and Pell-
awarded students, and since fall 2017, COD’s ALP English Composition 1 students pass at higher
rates than non-ALP English Composition 1 students. 
Mathematics: Students can meet math placement requirements using any of the following: 
A prerequisite college math course, at College of DuPage or another institution, with a grade of
C or higher. 
A COD ALEKS Placement, Preparation and Learning (PPL) math placement test. 
A proctored ALEKS PPL score from another institution. 
An ACT math score of 22 or a SAT math score of 530 for Math 1218 or 1220 only. 
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 58

An A, B, or C grade from an Illinois high school senior year Transitional Math course
completed in the last 18 months may allow placement into some math courses. 
ALEKS includes a Prep and Learning module to help students review math topics to improve course
placement before enrolling. The module tracks the math topics that each student knows as well as
those that the student is ready to learn. Students have access to the ALEKS Prep and Learning
module for one year, helping to ensure they are adequately prepared and placed into the appropriate
course. 
Learning Support and Preparation 
The Learning Commons is a one-stop academic support center with specialized services to support
students in mathematics, reading, writing, speech, and tutoring in other disciplines/programs. These
services are free of charge for currently enrolled students at the main Glen Ellyn campus, the
Centers, and online. The Learning Commons provides services in a one-on-one or group format,
staffed by faculty, professional coaches and peer tutors. Private rooms, cubicles, and open table areas
are available for student academic support services. Computers are available for students requiring
access to math software and Microsoft Office applications. Staff provide workshops and review
sessions as well as in-class assistance upon faculty request.
Within the Learning Commons, the Writing, Reading, Speech Assistance Area (WRSA) has peer and
professional non-teaching part-time faculty coaches who provide in-person and virtual writing or
presentation prep assistance for any COD course. The space includes a speech lab where students
practice individually or with a coach. The Math Assistance Area (MAA) is staffed by non-teaching
part time faculty who provide one-on-one help, in-person and virtually, to answer math, chemistry or
physics questions and clarify concepts from math coursework. Some full-time mathematics faculty
also assist by “donating” their office hours to work in Math Assistance. Tutoring Services has both
peer tutors and professional part-time non-teaching faculty tutors who provide in-person and virtual
course-based assistance through one-on-one, small group and drop-in sessions, Guided Study Groups,
and in-class assistance.  Additional services are provided in Learning Commons West in the
Technical Education Center (TEC). Each of COD’s Centers also has a Learning Commons with an
open computer lab for student and community use, a cubicle for individual or small group assistance,
and a testing lab. Table space is also available for student collaboration and self-study. 
The Library ensures students have access to the information resources, research assistance, study
space, and technology they need to be successful. Before the pandemic-related campus closure, the
Library was open more than 80 hours per week with 2,500 to 3,000 visitors daily when classes were
in session. During the closure the Library provided access to collections and technology at a Grab
and Go service desk to continue meeting student needs. Today the Library provides services,
including accessing information resources and research, creating and using digital media,
computing, and printing/copying/scanning, in-person and virtual via video-based appointment,
chat/text, and email. Virtual services were in place prior to campus closure in 2020, allowing for
quick adaptation and support of students. Demand remains high, with over 9,000 reference questions
(3,870 via chat) since the start of fall 2021. Library accounts for new students and employees are
automatically generated using network credentials, and District 502 residents also have access to
Library privileges. Thus, the Library is a resource to students (and potential students) before, during,
and after they are enrolled in classes. 
The Center for Access and Accommodations works to ensure students with disabilities have equitable
educational opportunities. The Center works with students and faculty to ensure access, provide
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 59

accommodations, and coordinate support services. Services include testing accommodations,
assistive/adaptive technology, and online learning accommodations. Students requesting
accommodations self-identify with the Center and provide appropriate documentation of their
disability. Within the Library, a librarian serves as liaison for Accessible and Assistive Services.
Students have access to a video magnification and text-to-speech station, two public, assistive
technology workstations, and a study room equipped with magnification and voice-to-text software
and specialized keyboards. 
The Center for Student Success provides resources and information for students through Navigators.
Navigators meet with new students to assist with registration, connect with Student Financial
Assistance, help with payments and textbook purchases, and more. Navigators monitor the progress
of their assigned students to help continuing students stay on track and connect them with resources
as needed. Students assigned to a Navigator include: 
New students that have a cumulative high school GPA under 3.0, an ACT score under 18, or a
SAT score under 960. 
Continuing students that are on academic warning. 
Continuing students that have earned between a 2.0 and a 2.5 cumulative GPA at COD but
have earned fewer than 23 credit hours. 
Continuing students with a reading placement score of 2, 3, 4 or 5 that have under a 2.5
cumulative GPA. 
The Chaparral Experience is a first-year program designed to help students transition to College of
DuPage. The program focuses on academic development and resources, while also encouraging
personal and professional growth. Modules include Using Helpful Resources, Developing Your
Academic and Career Strategy, and Navigating Challenges. The College plans to modify and expand
the current pilot program for 2022-23. 
3.D.3 Advising
Counseling, Advising and Transfer Services provides new and current students with academic
advising through faculty counselors and program advisors. From May 2020 through May 2021,
counselors and program advisors had over 50,000 student contacts through all available services.
Full-time teaching faculty within departments across the College also provide specialized advising to
students in their disciplines as needed.
Counselors and program advisors help students explore academic and career interests and develop
their educational plans. They also assist with student success strategies, offering one-on-one support
as well as workshops and courses related to college success and career development.  Students can
receive counseling and advising assistance at the Glen Ellyn (main) campus or at one of COD’s
Centers (Naperville, Addison, Westmont and Carol Stream). Virtual advising sessions are also
available. Students can also schedule virtual or phone appointments, or access the quick question
service electronically through Blackboard as another way to access a counselor virtually.
The College also provides a variety of online tools to students. Students can access Student Planning
Worksheets that outline the specific degree requirements for the Associate in Arts, Associate in
Science, Associate in Engineering Science, Associate of Applied Science, and Associate of General
Studies degrees. Students can also view their progress and develop a completion plan using the
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 60

Student Planner and receive educational counseling via email through the E-SARS E-Advising
system.
Continuing students in good academic standing (GPA 2.0 and above) are served by virtual advising
via Zoom or Blackboard Quick Question Counselor, in-person appointment, phone, and email. 
COD students must maintain a cumulative GPA of 2.0 or higher. Students who do not meet these
Standards of Academic Progress will be placed on Academic Probation and must meet with a
Counselor to complete a Success Agreement prior to registering for additional classes. 
3.D.4 Infrastructure and Resources
College of DuPage provides the infrastructure and resources necessary to support effective teaching
and learning. The College maintains a main campus in Glen Ellyn and four strategically-placed
Centers in Addison, Carol Stream, Naperville, and Westmont. The main campus and Centers
combine to provide a strong regional presence and make programs and services more accessible to
District 502 residents. 
The Library’s collection includes 250,000 print books, 324,000 electronic books, 51,000 physical
audio-visual items, over 100,000 streaming media files, 350 print periodicals, 125 electronic
collections; and a Reserve collection of textbooks, anatomical models, and other materials needed for
classes. Membership in I-Share affords access to the holdings of 89 academic libraries in Illinois for
students and employees, a combined collection that ranks among the world’s greatest research
libraries. The 108,000 square foot Library accommodates the needs of a diverse student population
with collaborative, quiet, and silent study areas as well as 18 study rooms. The Library Media Lab
(expanded in 2019) is a dedicated space for students to create and edit media projects with assistance
from staff in addition to borrowing recording equipment.
The Library also offers many of its services online and supports diverse technology needs and digital
literacy through access, assistance, and instruction. Resources include more than 100 public
workstations and 18 study rooms equipped with collaborative technology. The five dedicated Library
classrooms are equipped with laptop computers, one designed as a collaborative classroom. Through
CARES and HEERF funding, 650 laptops and 500 hotspots are available as loans to students. 
The College's Open Educational Resources (OER) Steering Committee seeks to facilitate day-one
access to course materials for all students and to support new pedagogical practices. To align its work
with the College’s commitment to equity and student success, the committee’s strategy is to engage
as many faculty as possible in learning about and adopting OER resources. Through outreach and
financial incentives, the Steering Committee has supported faculty in the development and adoption
of 35 OER projects and has prompted many more to examine the affordability of their course
materials. These efforts have resulted in student savings of approximately $3 million in textbook
costs in the last three years.
Information technology (IT) infrastructure is supported by the Information Technology Operational
Plan. The College's IT capabilities include learning and student support technologies, such as the
Blackboard learning management system, technology-enhanced classrooms, classroom capture
technology, and the Student Planning tool. There are over 800 wireless access points across all main
campus buildings and Centers, with these access points serving in excess of 40,000 unique devices in
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 61

a given month. IT and Learning Technologies help students, faculty, and staff with access and use of
these tools. 
As COVID-19 restrictions diminish, greater numbers of students are returning to the main physical
campus in Glen Ellyn and the College’s Centers. The physical spaces are maintained and updated
according to the needs of students in accordance with the Facility Master Plan. The plan focuses on
ensuring the College is ready to support student learning through an integrated Glen Ellyn campus,
support of Guided Pathways, enhanced support of STEM programs, and integration of high-flex and
digital learning spaces. 
The Berg Instructional Center (BIC) is a four-level structure that houses classrooms, labs, faculty and
departmental offices, and conference areas. The BIC connects directly to the Student Resource Center
(SRC), home to the Library and the Learning Commons, as well as the Student Services Center
(SSC), where students can find Campus Central, the Wings and Techcetera student galleries, and
other student services. 
The Health and Science Center (HSC) provides a combination of laboratory, classroom, office and
instructional space. Highlights include an operating room, full dental lab, medical imaging
laboratories, and a simulated hospital that contains four private rooms, an operational nurse’s station,
a simulation de-briefing room, and the use of high-fidelity manikins that recreate high-risk and non-
emergency patient scenarios for students. 
The Culinary and Hospitality Center (CHC) houses the culinary and hospitality programs. Culinary
students provide dining to community members through the Culinary Market at Wheat Café and
Waterleaf Restaurant. Hospitality Management students have the opportunity to gain real-world
experience by working at the Inn at Water's Edge, a boutique hotel located on the COD campus. 
The Technical Education Center (TEC) houses the hands-on labs for students in programs such as
Horticulture, Automotive Technology, HVAC-R, and Welding Technology. The LEED-certified
building includes an automotive shop with 34 bays and four dedicated classrooms; a greenhouse and
outdoor space for horticulture; and an HVACR lab built and maintained by students that contains
building automation, steam, hydronics, chilled water, rooftop, and electrical control systems. 
The Robert J. Miller Homeland Security Education Center (HEC) is a comprehensive, multi-
jurisdictional training center. The building features a full-scale indoor street scene for force-on-force
exercises, forensics and cybercrimes labs, a command center designed to instruct National Incident
Management System protocols, a smoke room with moveable walls, an outdoor scaling and
rappelling tower, a full-size ambulance, and a firearms training simulator. 
The Physical Education Center (PEC) includes an indoor track, racquetball courts, and swimming
pool. It provides space for credit and non-credit physical education courses, as well as 17 COD sports
teams. Outside facilities include a stadium that houses football, soccer, and track and field; two
baseball fields, and six full-size tennis courts. Chaparral Fitness Center memberships are available to
students and the community. 
Seaton Computing Center (SCC) includes high-tech classrooms and labs for the Computer and
Information Science, Computer and Information Technology, and Office Technology Information
programs. An open student work area and a drop-in assistance lab help students collaborate and learn
from each other. 
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 62

The McAninch Arts Center (MAC) is home to Animation, Art, Dance, Graphic Design, Motion
Picture/Television, Music, Photography and Theater; two resident professional ensembles; a number
of student groups; and a gallery space for professional, faculty, and student exhibits. The building
includes three performance spaces, the Cleve Carney Art Gallery, and the outdoor Lakeside Pavilion. 
Each of COD’s four Centers (in Addison, Carol Stream, Naperville and Westmont) offer the core
services available at the Glen Ellyn campus. These facilities and services include classrooms, a
computer lab, Learning Commons, and testing services. 
Finally, the College maintains three natural areas that serve as ecological study space as well as
public areas for recreational use. 
Sources
3.A.3_3.B.1 and 3.B.2_3.D.1_technology loans
3.A.3_3.D.2_online_remote tutoring and course assistance
3.A.3_3.D.4_collections
3.B.3_3.D.1_Black History Month 2022_Center for Student Diversity Equity and Inclusion
3.B.3_3.D.1_Fuel Pantry _ Office of Student Life
3.B.3_3.D.1_Inclusive Excellence Peer Mentoring (IEPM) Program_Center for Student
Diversity Equity and Inclusion
3.B.3_3.D.1_Latino Outreach_Center for Student Diversity Equity and Inclusion
3.B.4_3.D.4_McAninch Arts Center
3.D.1_3.D.3_2020-2021 Counseling Workshops
3.D.1_Big Interview _ Career Services
3.D.1_Campus Central _ College of DuPage
3.D.1_career preparation webinar_Chaparral Workshop_Webinar Schedule _ Career Services
3.D.1_Career Services
3.D.1_Center for Student Diversity Equity and Inclusion
3.D.1_COD and the LGBTQIA+ Community _ LGBTQIA+ at College of DuPage
3.D.1_Electronic Resources _ Career Services
3.D.1_First-Generation Student Group Series _ College of DuPage
3.D.1_Honors Program _ College of DuPage
3.D.1_Living Leadership Program
3.D.1_Page 3_NSO Book_ONLINE-LR spring 2022
3.D.1_Page 3_NSO Book_ONLINE-LR spring 2022 (page number 3)
3.D.1_Personal Counseling _ College of DuPage
3.D.1_Student Financial Assistance _ Financial Aid
3.D.1_Student Help Desk_Information Technology Services and Computer Lab Hours _
College of DuPage
3.D.1_Veterans Services
3.D.1_Virtual Services Resources
3.D.1_VMock SMART Resume Platform - Electronic Resources _ Career Services
3.D.2_Accessible Assistive Services - COD Library at College of DuPage
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 63

3.D.2_best practices8.GSP9.expandofferings10_Counseling and Advising Update_2.24.22 (1)
3.D.2_best practices8.GSP9.expandofferings10_Counseling and Advising Update_2.24.22 (1)
(page number 8)
3.D.2_best practices8.GSP9.expandofferings10_Counseling and Advising Update_2.24.22 (1)
(page number 9)
3.D.2_best practices8.GSP9.expandofferings10_Counseling and Advising Update_2.24.22 (1)
(page number 10)
3.D.2_Center for Access and Accommodations _ College of DuPage
3.D.2_Center for Student Success
3.D.2_centers_Addison Learning Commons _ Learning Commons
3.D.2_Chaparral Experience _ College of DuPage
3.D.2_competency_Reading and Writing Placement _ College of DuPage
3.D.2_District Residents - COD Library at College of DuPage
3.D.2_How Transitional Math Can Help You _ College of DuPage
3.D.2_In-person - Using the Library - COD Library at College of DuPage
3.D.2_Learning Commons _ College of DuPage
3.D.2_Math and Geometry Placement _ College of DuPage
3.D.2_Review Workshop Schedule _ Learning Commons
3.D.2_scores_Reading and Writing Placement _ College of DuPage
3.D.2_service desk_Library News Announcements - COD Library at College of DuPage
3.D.2_virtual.online_Online Services - Using the Library - COD Library at College of DuPage
3.D.3_2020-2021 Counseling Workshops
3.D.3_Academic Advising _ College of DuPage
3.D.3_courses_collg
3.D.3_educational plans_What Can I Do While I’m Waiting
3.D.3_online tools_Advising Tools and Resources _ College of DuPage
3.D.3_Quick Question Virtual Advising _ College of DuPage
3.D.3_standards
3.D.3_Student Planner
3.D.3_student_planning_as_current
3.D.3_virtual advising
3.D.4_BIC_SSC
3.D.4_Culinary and Hospitality Center (CHC) _ Campus Facilities
3.D.4_facility-master-plan
3.D.4_Health and Science Center (HSC) _ Campus Facilities
3.D.4_Homeland Security Training Center (HTC) _ Campus Facilities
3.D.4_Information Technology Strategic Plan
3.D.4_I-Share _ CARLI
3.D.4_learning.adopting_Working with OER – Open Education College of DuPage
3.D.4_Media Lab - COD Library at College of DuPage
3.D.4_Online Services - Using the Library - COD Library at College of DuPage
3.D.4_outreach.incenstives_OER Support Program – Open Education College of DuPage
3.D.4_Physical Education Center (PEC) _ Campus Facilities
3.D.4_Seaton Computing Center (SCC) _ Campus Facilities
3.D.4_Steering Committee – Open Education College of DuPage
3.D.4_Student Resource Center (SRC) _ Campus Facilities
3.D.4_Study_Spaces
3.D.4_Technical Education Center (TEC) _ Campus Facilities
Chap Life Club List Active and Inactive
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 64

COD Centers
Information Technology Strategic Plan
Safe Zone II
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 65

3.S - Criterion 3 - Summary
The institution provides quality education, wherever and however its offerings are delivered.
Summary
College of DuPage provides quality education in pursuit of our mission to be a center for excellence
in teaching, learning, and cultural experiences. Academic rigor is shown through our courses and
programs, which includes learning outcomes and objectives that are consistent across delivery modes
and locations.
Degree programs include general education coursework to ensure students gain knowledge and skills
common to all educated people, regardless of their profession. Faculty aligned these courses to the
College’s General Education Student Learning Outcomes to ensure graduates are able to think
critically; use information; communicate; reason ethically, quantitatively, and scientifically; and use
methods of inquiry. Students and faculty share scholarship and creative work through publications,
exhibitions, theater and music productions, and more.
The College engages in equity, diversity, and multicultural work through the execution of its Equity
Plan. The Equity Plan includes a focus on employee recruitment and hiring. Degree students
complete a course in global/multicultural studies as a degree requirement, and all students have
access to the Center for Student Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion.
Faculty and staff at the College are qualified in line with Board policy, accreditation requirements,
and state law. COD supports employees in continued learning and professional development through
an expansive Faculty Professional Development Program as well as employee professional
development opportunities provided through the Employee Development Center. Faculty are
evaluated using specific timelines and processes defined in their contracts. Other employees,
including administrators, create and set performance goals that tie to the Strategic Long Range Plan
and their division’s annual plans.
Finally, students have access to a wide array of services at College of DuPage to help them reach
their academic, career, and personal goals. From Campus Central and New Student Orientation to
the Library, Learning Commons, Counseling and Advising, and the Center for Student Success, the
College works to ensure students are prepared for and supported during their coursework. Students
have multiple modes available to demonstrate competency in English and mathematics, helping to
ensure they place into college-level coursework whenever possible. The College includes an extensive
state-of-the-art main campus, four Centers across the district, and Library, OER, and IT resources.
Sources
There are no sources.
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 66

4 - Teaching and Learning: Evaluation and Improvement
The institution demonstrates responsibility for the quality of its educational programs, learning
environments and support services, and it evaluates their effectiveness for student learning through
processes designed to promote continuous improvement.
4.A - Core Component 4.A
The institution ensures the quality of its educational offerings.
1. The institution maintains a practice of regular program reviews and acts upon the findings.
2. The institution evaluates all the credit that it transcripts, including what it awards for
experiential learning or other forms of prior learning, or relies on the evaluation of responsible
third parties.
3. The institution has policies that ensure the quality of the credit it accepts in transfer.
4. The institution maintains and exercises authority over the prerequisites for courses, rigor of
courses, expectations for student learning, access to learning resources, and faculty
qualifications for all its programs, including dual credit programs. It ensures that its dual credit
courses or programs for high school students are equivalent in learning outcomes and levels of
achievement to its higher education curriculum.
5. The institution maintains specialized accreditation for its programs as appropriate to its
educational purposes.
6. The institution evaluates the success of its graduates. The institution ensures that the
credentials it represents as preparation for advanced study or employment accomplish these
purposes. For all programs, the institution looks to indicators it deems appropriate to its
mission.
Argument
4.A.1 Program Reviews
College of DuPage engages in rigorous and systematic program review for its academic programs.
This process supports a culture of student learning and continuous improvement. The College builds
on the Illinois Community College Board (ICCB) program review requirements of analyzing
program need, cost effectiveness, and quality. This process adds action planning and annual updates
to strengthen and improve programs, and it ensures alignment between learning assessment and
program review. Routine reviews of the process incorporate changes made in the ICCB Program
Review Manual as well as minor revisions based on faculty feedback. A more thorough process
review is underway in 2021-22, with the goal of further engaging faculty annually, streamlining the
written five-year comprehensive report and process, and providing a user-friendly electronic system
for collecting and organizing program review and assessment materials.  
Programs are required by ICCB to engage in program review every five years. The College submits
program review reports annually to ICCB, including program summaries, progress report results, and
the program review schedule. Reports are shared on the employee portal (InsideCOD). Additionally,
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 67

required Annual Updates ensure continuous attention to the goals stated in the five-year review and
student learning assessment.
The program review process provides an opportunity to evaluate the degree to which programs are
meeting stated goals and objectives. In addition, it allows faculty to review and reflect on where the
program has been in the last five years, where it is now, and plan for where they want it to be in the
next five years. The process also provides evidence in support of the institutional mission. Programs
undergoing review receive standard data reports, including occupational projections, demographic
profiles, enrollment trends, retention and completion data, course history statistics as well as
graduate, current student, faculty, and administrator survey results. Programs also review aggregate
and disaggregate data to identify and address equity gaps and can request additional information
from Academic Affairs and Research & Analytics.
In Phase I: Program Review Planning (the year before the report is due), faculty attend workshops,
review student learning outcomes and recent student learning assessments, and consider possible data
needs they may have prior to the five-year review. Programs also review the Student Survey
Template to ensure the appropriate questions are asked and identify changes that may be needed
prior to their students being surveyed that year.
Phase II: Program Review Report Development takes place during the year that the five-year program
review is submitted. Faculty attend another workshop to ensure they are aware of the schedule and
report requirements. They also have the opportunity to meet separately with the CTE Program
Improvement Manager and the Director of Assessment for help interpreting data, reviewing
assessment results and improvements, and discussing requirements for the report. The department
chair then leads program faculty through reflection on previous years’ improvements, successes, and
challenges. The chair completes the written report and submits it to their dean.
The Dean reviews the report before a final meeting among members of the program, the Dean, the
AVP of Assessment and Student Success, the Director of Assessment, and the CTE Program
Improvement Manager. These discussions include special concerns (such as COVID-19), budget
needs, student learning assessment and improvement, and plans for future actions. The faculty
written 5-year comprehensive reports are used to complete the ICCB program review templates for
final COD ICCB program review submission at the completion of each cycle. Final reports include a
Plan for Future Improvements.
To ensure implementation of improvement plans, all programs also complete an Annual Update each
December. Department chairs submit Annual Updates to the division dean, who reviews the report
and either asks for additional feedback or forwards the report to the CTE Improvement Manager and
Director of Assessment. The Annual Update process includes the status of the previous program
review plans for future improvement, new plans for improvement, a question related to improving
student outcomes, and the annual reporting of program/discipline Student Outcomes Assessment
Projects (SOAPs). See Section 4.B for additional details regarding SOAPs and student learning
assessment.
4.A.2 Evaluation of Credit
As noted in the Faculty Contract Section D6.1 and Administrative Procedure 20-125: Evaluation of
Student Performance, the instructor of record is responsible for grading students’ class work and
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 68

assigning grades. Student may gain additional credits based on the areas below.
College Credit Earned Through Experiential Learning
The Office of Field and Experiential Learning/Study Abroad/Global Education works closely with
academic divisions to offer classes that combine both classroom- and field-based instruction.
Students enrolling in Field and Experiential Learning/Study Abroad/Global Education courses may
earn college credit toward a degree or certificate. All Field and Experiential Learning/Study
Abroad/Global Education courses incorporate the same learning outcomes and academic rigor as the
traditional classroom setting. The experiential content in these classes will range from 30 to 70
percent depending on the academic discipline.
Career Services works closely with academic divisions that offer experiential education through
Service Learning and Academic Internships. Faculty who chose to incorporate the Service Learning
pedagogy into their curriculum complete a form and submit to their division for academic
scheduling. Students enrolled in a Service Learning course are required to complete a Service
Learning Contract, which is reviewed by the Service Learning Host Site, Faculty member, and the
Service Learning Coordinator in Career Services. Students who enroll in a Service Learning course
earn this notation on their transcript.
Students who are interested in earning academic credit for an internship will be required to complete
the Academic Internship Forms packet that will allow faculty and division Deans to review and
approve learning objectives to ensure students engage in active learning with supporting coursework.
Students can earn one to four credit hours, up to two times towards their electives category or to
fulfill a requirement for their academic program such as culinary, cosmetology, and horticulture.
College Credit Earned by Demonstrated Competence
Students are offered the opportunity to gain college credits by demonstrating achievements outside
the classroom in two ways: Credit by National Examination and Credit by Proficiency. Students can
complete up to 42 of the 64 credits needed toward an associate's degree, or up to half of the credits
needed toward a certificate, through this program.
Credit by National Examination allows students to demonstrate knowledge in a subject area by
submitting scores from the Advanced Placement (AP), College-Level Examination Program (CLEP),
or International Baccalaureate (IB).
Credit by Proficiency offers the opportunity to gain credit for knowledge acquired in an occupation or
educational environment outside of college related to specific COD courses. Students who
demonstrate the knowledge needed to complete a COD course can gain college credit through this
process. Faculty and administrators in each academic division determine if a specific course lends
itself to this method of gaining credit and how the student must demonstrate this knowledge.
Established exams are available in the Testing Center. Students desiring credit for a course that is not
already available can contact the course division to inquire about proficiency assessment.
Students can demonstrate proficiency in a foreign language if they earn the Illinois State Seal of
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 69

Biliteracy or Biliteracy Commendation at their high school. Illinois high school students can earn
college credit by providing an official copy of their Illinois high school transcript showing the Seal
(8CH) or Commendation (4CH) and submitting the required form to the Office of Student Records.
4.A.3 Transfer Credit Quality
The Office of Student Records evaluates credits earned at other colleges and universities for transfer
into a program of study at the College upon receipt of the official transcript. Student Records reviews
only official transcripts. The Office of Student Records Transfer Evaluation Policy guides acceptance
of credits by the College and is communicated to students on the Office of Student Records web page.
The policy addresses requirements concerning:
Acceptance of official transcripts
Accredited institutions
Students with prior bachelor degrees
Credit for military training
What is not eligible for credit
Academic year issues (semesters, quarter and trimester systems)
4.A.4 Institutional Authority: Student Learning, Academic Rigor, Prerequisites
College of DuPage maintains oversight and responsibility for all curricula via the College
Curriculum Committee and Division Curriculum Committees. As outlined in the College’s Guide to
Curriculum, there is a detailed set of internal processes and required approvals for new and revised
courses, certificates, and degrees. As noted in the Faculty Contract Section D 6.1, full-time faculty
are responsible for developing and evaluating all of the institution’s educational programs.
Effective fall 2021, the College transitioned its curriculum management software from CurricUNET
to Courseleaf. The new Courseleaf system allows a more responsive and streamlined curriculum
management process that provides user-friendly curriculum proposal forms, accurately tracks
proposed changes, allows users to review and provide comments, and interfaces directly with the
College Catalog to display up-to-date course and program information. The COD Guide to
Curriculum is currently under revision to reflect the adoption of Courseleaf, as well as additional
updates to the curriculum process since the Guide was last updated effective fall 2018.
The curriculum process for new and revised courses and programs begins with a full-time faculty
originator in Courseleaf. This process ensures consistency and standardization for all elements such
as course/program objectives, student learning outcomes, and evaluation methods for student
performance. The decision to develop new programs should be made collaboratively among faculty
discipline members as well as their Division Dean. New programs are developed based upon student
demand, community need, and labor market analysis. Faculty must provide justification for the
development of a program by clearly explaining employment goals, target audience(s), supply-
demand information, and an overview of how the proposed curriculum fits into the College’s overall
plans and goals to meet career and technical education/workforce preparation needs within the
district/region.
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 70

Next, the new or revised curriculum is reviewed by: 1) Discipline members, library liaison, and
counselor liaison; 2) Dean; 3) Division Curriculum Committee; 4) College Curriculum Committee
(CCC). The CCC is comprised of representatives from all academic divisions of the institution. After
review by the CCC, curriculum goes to the Provost for approval. The Board of Trustees approves new
degree or certificate programs of study. The Manager of College Curriculum then submits the
curriculum to the Illinois Community College Board (ICCB). ICCB must approve all new curriculum
items as well as certain revisions.
For each degree and certificate program offered by the College, an Application for Permanent
Approval of a Career & Technical Education Curriculum (Form 20) must be completed and
submitted to ICCB for final approval before the College can offer any courses or the program to
students. Sections of Form 20 include:
Feasibility Analysis verifying that the program is feasible from a labor market standpoint and
that there is demonstrated sustainable need for the program in the district.
Curriculum Quality and Cost Analysis, which documents program quality in response to
identified needs, cost-effectiveness, and financial support. Sections include curriculum
information, education and skill requirements, learning assessment, faculty qualifications and
needs, academic control, and cost data.
ICCB may also approve new programs as “Reasonable and Moderate Extensions” through Form 21.
This process allows the College to create the new program from an existing, closely related “parent
program.”
Courseleaf includes the “Master Syllabus” for each approve course (previously named Active Course
File or ACF). The Master Syllabus defines: curricular area; course title; credit hours (lecture, lab,
clinical, etc.); Illinois Articulation Initiative (IAI) status; course description; prerequisites; learning
objectives; topical outline, faculty sponsorship, and methods of student evaluation. Faculty use the
Master Syllabus to ensure syllabi for all sections of a course include the common course description
and course objectives. Faculty are required to include this information on the syllabus regardless of
modality, and divisions are responsible for ensuring compliance with this requirement each semester.
This process ensures that content and learning objectives are consistent across all modalities.
With respect to dual credit, the College adheres to ICCB Administrative Rule Section 1501.507 (b)
11 and the Dual Credit Quality Act for instructor qualifications, student qualifications, placement
testing, course offerings, and course requirements.
All college-level courses offered by the College--on campus, at off-campus sites, and at secondary
schools--meet all state laws, ICCB regulations, local College policies, and College of DuPage
instructional procedures and academic standards. Students must be eligible to take the class based
upon college placement testing or completion of any prerequisites to sit in a dual credit course and
receive credit.
Generally, guidelines for faculty in dual credit courses are evaluated as with any other faculty
member teaching at any College of DuPage location. However, in accordance with the Illinois Dual
Credit Quality Act, in 2019 ICCB and the Illinois Board of Higher Education (IBHE) released
specific guidance for Academic Credentialing for Dual Credit Endorsement in General Education
Illinois Articulation Initiative Courses. The College adheres to these guidelines for qualifying and
hiring a faculty member to teach in a particular discipline for dual credit.
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 71

The high school instructor teaching dual credit must complete a College of DuPage dual credit
instructor application through DualEnroll along with cover letter, resume, transcripts, and required
certification. Human Resources record-keeping includes transcripts and records of dual credit faculty,
consistent with other adjunct faculty hires.
New courses considered for dual credit instruction are examined and approved by the faculty in the
discipline to ensure that learning outcomes, topical outlines, and assessment procedures are
appropriate to the given college-level class. A detailed course syllabus including course objectives, a
topical outline, and required textbooks are part of the dual credit agreement process. COD faculty or
administrator reviewing the proposed agreement for the specific dual credit course may also request
other discipline-specific information and materials. Approvals for the dual credit agreement include
the high school, COD lead faculty, the dean, and the Associate Vice President of Academic Affairs. 
Central to the integrity and success of the Dual Credit Program is the communication, application,
and monitoring of overarching policies and practices that govern college operations, many of which
are new to high school partners. The College has accomplished this to date through the development
and distribution of the Dual Credit Partnership Guide, the Dual Credit Advisory Committee (with
representatives from COD and local high schools), the Concurrent Enrollment Partnerships
Committee, and a Dual Credit Symposium open to all high school administrators and instructors
involved in dual credit efforts. All dual credit students also have access to COD student resources
such as the Library and tutoring.
In 2020, the College  also implemented an online Dual Credit Instructor Orientation. This
Orientation includes information related to teaching requirements and onboarding, using Blackboard,
and dual credit assessment policies and practices. Thus, the Orientation ensures dual credit faculty
are aware of the course objectives and assessment processes for the course, including participation in
at least one common assessment.
4.A.5 Specialized Accreditation
Several COD programs maintain specialized or programmatic accreditation. Specialized
accreditation demonstrates commitment to achieving high standards of quality according to
educational standards in each respective industry/profession. COD programs with specialized
accreditation maintain good standing with those accreditors. One exception, Anesthesia Technology,
was placed on probation in 2021 and is being discontinued effective August 2022.
4.A.6 Evaluating the Success of Graduates
The College administers an annual Graduate Survey to students who completed a credential during
the previous fiscal year (summer through spring). The survey evaluates a variety of aspects of the
graduates’ COD experience, including whether they achieved their educational objectives,
satisfaction related to their major, and level or preparation for future employment and education.
Results are reported separately for career graduates. Programs also review their graduates’ responses
during the five-year Program Review. Beginning with 2019 graduates, Research & Analytics shares
survey results as part of its data dashboards. The dashboards allow users to view results in relation to
demographics, degree program, etc.
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 72

Several career programs conduct employer surveys to measure employer satisfaction with COD
graduates. Programs also gather this feedback during relevant Advisory Committee meetings and use
this information to guide curricular changes, identify improvements based on assessment results, and
provide additional information regarding employer and industry satisfaction with each program.
Programs also monitor other program outcomes such as pass rates for licensure or certification
exams. COD student pass rates regularly exceed accreditor, state, and national rates, providing
additional evidence of student success. In cases where pass rates are lower than expected, programs
develop action plans to address those issues.
Sources
3.A.1_3.B.4_3.C.1_4.A.2_4.A.4_CODFA Agreement
3.A.1_3.B.4_3.C.1_4.A.2_4.A.4_CODFA Agreement (page number 24)
3.A.1_4.A.4_College Curriculum Committee
3.A.1_4.A.4_Division Curriculum Committees
3.C.3_4.A.4_Faculty_credentials_ENDORSEMENT_ONLY_Final
4.A.1_2021 College of DuPage District 50201 Program Review Report
4.A.1_2021 Student Program Review Feedback Survey
4.A.1_COD Program Review Process Update
4.A.1_FY 2022 Academic Program Review at College of DuPage Phase I
4.A.1_FY 2022 Academic Program Review at College of DuPage Phase II
4.A.1_ICCB Program Review Manual FY2022-2026 FINAL
4.A.1_ICCB Program Review Manual FY2022-2026 FINAL (page number 54)
4.A.1_PR meetings
4.A.1_Program Annual Update Template 2021.doc
4.A.2_Academic Credit Internship Requirements _ Career Services
4.A.2_AdministrativeProceduresManual
4.A.2_AdministrativeProceduresManual (page number 283)
4.A.2_Biliteracy Required Form
4.A.2_Biliteracy Required Form (page number 2)
4.A.2_Career Services
4.A.2_Credit by Proficiency Exams _ College of DuPage
4.A.2_Field and Experiential Learning_Study Abroad_Global Education
4.A.2_Field Studies-Study Abroad Classes Offered
4.A.2_Illinois State Seal of Biliteracy
4.A.2_Internship Forms Packet
4.A.2_Page 2_Tests Accepted by College of DuPage _ College of DuPage
4.A.2_Page 2_Tests Accepted by College of DuPage _ College of DuPage (page number 2)
4.A.2_Service Learning_Proposal Form and Example
4.A.3_Official Transcripts
4.A.3_Transcript Evaluation
4.A.3_transfer_credit_policy
4.A.4_4.B.1 and 4.B.2_COD Dual Credit Online Orientation overview
4.A.4_4.B.1 and 4.B.2_Dual Credit Orientation syllabus updated spring 2022
4.A.4_4.B.1 and 4.B.2_IL Dual Credit Quality Act
4.A.4_8.18.21 Concurrent Enrollment Committee Members
4.A.4_Dual Credit Advisory Committee Minutes 4-22-21
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 73

4.A.4_Dual Credit Symposium Agenda Final
4.A.4_Form_20
4.A.4_Form_21
4.A.4_Guide to Curriculum - Fall 2018
4.A.4_ICCB Administrative Rule Section 1501.507 (b) 11
4.A.4_Instructor steps DualEnroll
4.A.4_Invitation template
4.A.4_Page 3_FORM 20_Feasibilty_Python Language Proficiency Certificate
4.A.4_Page 3_FORM 20_Feasibilty_Python Language Proficiency Certificate (page number 3)
4.A.4_Page 6_Page 14_Form 20_Curriculum.Cost_Internet of Things Proficiency Certificate
4.A.4_Page 6_Page 14_Form 20_Curriculum.Cost_Internet of Things Proficiency Certificate
(page number 6)
4.A.4_Page 6_Page 14_Form 20_Curriculum.Cost_Internet of Things Proficiency Certificate
(page number 14)
4.A.4_Partnership Guide Final
4.A.4_Partnership Guide Final (page number 8)
4.A.4_Partnership Guide Final (page number 12)
4.A.4_Partnership Guide Final (page number 13)
4.A.4_Partnership Guide Final (page number 15)
4.A.4_Syllabus Guide
4.A.4_Syllabus Template 2021-22 Accessible
4.A.4_Tutoring
4.A.5_Programatic Accreditation
4.A.6_[career] 2021 COD Graduate Survey. Occupational Program Results
4.A.6_[data dashboards] 2021 COD Graduate Survey. Overall Occupational Results
4.A.6_2021 COD Graduate Survey. All Results by Degree Type
4.A.6_Advisory Committee Minutes [this information]
4.A.6_employer surveys
4.A.6_PlanofAction-2022.docx
4.A.6_Program Outcomes
CIT 1111_ Computer and Hardware Maintenance
ENGLI 1101_ English Composition I
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 74

4.B - Core Component 4.B
The institution engages in ongoing assessment of student learning as part of its commitment to the
educational outcomes of its students.
1. The institution has effective processes for assessment of student learning and for achievement
of learning goals in academic and cocurricular offerings.
2. The institution uses the information gained from assessment to improve student learning.
3. The institution’s processes and methodologies to assess student learning reflect good practice,
including the substantial participation of faculty, instructional and other relevant staff
members.
Argument
4.B Overview
College of DuPage continues to increase the use of student learning assessment to guide
improvements. Formal learning assessment takes place at the general education, program/discipline,
and course (including dual credit) levels, in addition to formal co-curricular assessment and informal
classroom assessment. These processes empower faculty and instructional staff to collect, analyze,
and use data about student learning to improve learning, outcomes, and experiences.
The Student Learning Assessment Committee (SLAC) leads learning assessment at the College.
SLAC is responsible for planning and implementing the General Education (GE) Assessment Plan,
as well as engaging the College community through discussions and resources related to learning
assessment. SLAC membership includes faculty across the College’s divisions, adjunct faculty, and
representatives from the Assessment/Student Success and Program Review areas of the Provost’s
office. Additionally, SLAC’s subcommittees extend membership to colleagues who are not members
of SLAC, encouraging broad participation in assessment.
The College established an Assessment Office and hired the Director, Assessment of Student
Learning Outcomes in July 2019 to help manage these processes. The Assessment Office’s mission is
to support the improvement of student learning and integration across curricular and co-curricular
areas of the College and champion strategies that will promote equity in student outcomes by
collaborating with faculty and staff and working closely with SLAC. The office manages processes
and training related to general education, program, course (including dual credit), and co-curricular
learning assessment and provides support to programs with specialized accreditation. The Director of
Assessment provides additional guidance and regular communications between groups as an advisory
member of all subcommittees.
GENERAL EDUCATION ASSESSMENT: EMBEDDED MONITORING REPORT
Despite working toward assessment of the GE Outcomes through outcomes mapping and pilot
assessments from 2008 through 2018, in 2017 and 2019 the Higher Learning Commission
recommended that the College increase its focus on GE assessment. This section serves as embedded
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 75

monitoring and evidence of progress for GE assessment. It addresses all sections of Criterion 4 for
GE assessment.
In 2008-2009, full-time faculty created and ratified the College’s GE Student Learning Outcomes,
reviewing and refining to seven outcomes in 2018. These outcomes pertain to the broad body of
knowledge and skills that students gain through any associate degree program at the College. Two of
the seven outcomes—Critical Thinking and Information Literacy—reach across all courses of the GE
curriculum. The other five outcomes align to specific areas of GE coursework that students complete
in pursuit of any associate degree at COD: Cultural and Historical Comprehension (humanities and
fine arts), Expression and Exchange of Ideas (communication), Human Behavior and Societal
Knowledge (social and behavioral sciences), Quantitative Reasoning (mathematics), and Scientific
Reasoning (physical and life sciences).
4.B.1 General Education Assessment Processes
SLAC and its subcommittees lead GE learning assessment according to the GE Assessment Plan,
which was implemented in fall 2019. The GE Assessment Plan identifies a three-phase cycle that is
used for implementing the GE assessments: Collect; Assess and Plan Improvements; and Improve.
To manage the cycle, the plan divides the outcomes into two groups: Group A (Critical Thinking,
Quantitative Reasoning, and Scientific Reasoning) and Group B (Information Literacy,
Expression/Exchange of Ideas, Cultural/Historical Comprehension, and Human Behavior/Societal
Knowledge.)
SLAC leads the Critical Thinking and Information Literacy GE assessments, while SLAC’s
subcommittees lead the assessments for the other five outcomes. A member of SLAC chairs each
subcommittee, and the Director of Assessment serves in an advisory role on each subcommittee.
Before assessing, the groups conduct research and review best practices in relation to assessment of
similar outcomes, such as reviewing relevant literature and available assessment tools. The groups
then plan each assessment method after considering relevancy for the given COD GE outcome and
ability for assessment implementation from both the student and faculty perspective. This method
allows for assessments that are specific to COD’s GE outcomes and learning culture, helping to
ensure use of results for improvement.
As part of the GE Assessment Plan, most assessments use random sampling of course sections to
ensure appropriate representation of both student and section type (online synchronous, online
asynchronous, face-to-face, hybrid, etc.). Due to COVID-19 restrictions on classroom and
communication time, in some cases students receive the assessment directly instead of in class. Using
these processes, the College increased frequency of GE assessment and the number of student
artifacts reviewed. Prior to 2019, the College completed two large-scale general education
assessments: Critical Thinking in 2014 with approximately 400 student artifacts, and Expression and
Exchange of Ideas in 2018 with 374 student artifacts. By contrast, the College has assessed nearly
4,000 student artifacts across all seven GE outcomes since the start of the 2019 GE Assessment Plan. 
After artifact collection and scoring, the Assessment Office analyzes overall results and disaggregates
by demographic groups. The demographic analyses help the College find and address equity gaps in
assessment results. Faculty receive and discuss these results in a variety of venues, including during
In-Service sessions with all full-time faculty, through communications to all full- and part-time
faculty, and during department meetings designated for assessment work. The College develops and
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 76

implements an Improvement Plan for each outcome prior to the next assessment. See additional
details and evidence for each of the seven outcomes, assessments, and improvement plans below.
Critical Thinking Process and Improvement
In 2014, the College conducted a Critical Thinking assessment pilot. General Education Assessment
Reviewers (GEARs) assessed over 400 student artifacts with a minimum of two readings per artifact.
As a follow up to the Critical Thinking pilot, several professional development sessions were held for
faculty. In addition to these offerings, the Associate Vice President of Academic Affairs held an
Assessment Academy in 2017.
In fall 2019, the College conducted the first Critical Thinking assessment under the new GE
Assessment Plan. SLAC made improvements to the assessment process based on what was learned
from previous GE assessments: artifacts were collected from a random sample of course sections
through the new Blackboard Outcomes module; workshops were held and additional documentation
was created for faculty whose sections were selected for the assessment, 1-on-1 assistance was
provided to faculty as needed; and SLAC adapted the rubric to ensure student learning was measured
separately for specific skill areas. After artifact collection in fall 2019, full-time faculty normed
against the rubric and scored the artifacts during January 2020 In-Service, with over 250 full-time
faculty members participating in the process. After the Assessment Office analyzed the results,
faculty reviewed the results in spring 2020 via email and faculty workshops. Due to this timeline
overlapping with the first period of the COVID-19 pandemic, faculty received the results again in fall
2020 at both August and October In-Service. Additionally, SLAC and the Assessment Office
gathered feedback regarding the process and results in preparation for development of the Critical
Thinking Improvement Plan, including:
“What Can We Learn from the Critical Thinking Assessment—and What's Next?” Workshops:
Spring ‘20
Discussion questions in workshops and with SLAC: Spring and Fall ‘20
Development of draft Improvement Plan components; survey to collect feedback on draft
components: Fall ‘20
In-Service focus on Critical Thinking assignment design and “Essentials of Critical Thinking”
in the discipline: October ‘20
Program Review Annual Update focus question: “Share the ways your department is working
to improve students' Critical Thinking skills”: December ‘20
Development of the Critical Thinking Activity, Assignment, and Assessment Repository
SLAC shared the final Critical Thinking Improvement Plan at January 2021 In-Service and posted it
to the shared Blackboard organization. The plan includes a focus on Critical Thinking within the
disciplines, providing additional opportunities to share and learn from colleagues regarding Critical
Thinking improvement, a connection to the ongoing equity work at the College, and work on both
faculty and student communications.
The follow-up assessment took place in fall 2021 based on the GE Assessment Plan, again using
Blackboard Outcomes for artifact collection. Scoring is taking place in spring 2022. Due to COVID-
19 restrictions on large group gatherings, a small set of faculty (GEARs) will score the artifacts.
Quantitative Reasoning Process and Improvement
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 77

The College conducted the first formal GE assessment of Quantitative Reasoning in spring 2020.
SLAC designated a subcommittee including math and statistics faculty to lead this assessment. The
subcommittee discussed possible assessment tools and techniques in fall 2020, deciding assessment
questions embedded into students’ courses would provide the most authentic measurement of this
outcome. Thus, the subcommittee developed five sets of questions aligned to the different areas of
quantitative reasoning courses: technical math, general education, precalculus, calculus, and
statistics. The questions measured baseline learning related to three areas of the quantitative
reasoning outcome: interpret mathematical models, find solutions to problems, and use terminology.
Faculty then embedded the questions in randomly selected sections of spring 2020 courses.
Results of the assessment showed that more than 70% of students correctly answered the assessment
questions. Further analysis of the data, including results by demographic groups, did not show any
consistent statistically significant correlations. The subcommittee discussed some concerns related to
question format and the assessment process, including relatively low participation likely due to the
assessment occurring amidst the earliest months of the COVID-19 pandemic.
The subcommittee designed the initial assessment questions as a baseline measurement of students’
quantitative reasoning skills. Given the overall positive results, the subcommittee concentrated the
Quantitative Reasoning Improvement Plan on developing more comprehensive future assessments.
The modified assessments included additional questions to further differentiate students’ skill levels
in relation to the outcome.
All students in fall 2021 math and statistics courses received the modified assessment questions
directly through Blackboard. Incentives for completing the assessment were offered in an effort to
improve student response rates from spring 2020. Results of the fall 2021 assessment are currently
being analyzed by the Assessment Office; faculty will review the results and begin work on the next
Improvement Plan in fall 2022. 
Scientific Reasoning Process and Improvement
The College also assessed Scientific Reasoning as a GE outcome for the first time in spring 2020. In
order to prepare for this assessment, SLAC formed a Scientific Reasoning subcommittee made up of
faculty from across the GE science curriculum and one Nursing professor. This committee met
throughout fall 2019 and early spring 2020 to research assessment tools for this outcome, ultimately
deciding to use a modified version of a publicly-available quiz, the Lawson Test of Scientific
Reasoning. This tool provided the ability to make modifications and comparisons to widely available
analyses, including results from other colleges in the United States.
Due to the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, the subcommittee changed its assessment strategy
during spring 2020 semester. After initially planning for faculty in randomly selected course sections
to administer the assessment, the group determined it would be less burdensome to ask students to
complete the assessment outside of class time. Thus, the Assessment Office sent the quiz to all
students enrolled in GE science courses through Blackboard and offered incentives for completing
and doing well on the assessment. Over 750 students completed the quiz.
The assessment’s most salient results were the significant differences across demographic groups,
revealing race/ethnicity and gender equity gaps. The subcommittee shared the assessment results
with SLAC and gathered feedback at a workshop during October 2020 In-Service. Using this
information, the subcommittee then determined that focusing on results across demographic groups,
especially race/ethnicity and gender, would provide the most meaningful improvements for COD
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 78

students. Shortly after sharing a draft Scientific Reasoning Improvement Plan with faculty at January
2021 In-Service, the group found an opportunity to better define its goals for implementing
improvements for students through the COD Foundation’s Resource for Excellence grant program.
The subcommittee submitted an application focused on interventions that could address the equity
gaps, and the Foundation awarded a grant of approximately $20,000 for 2021-22. A revised
Improvement Plan was developed based on the grant. 
As a result of this work, the subcommittee planned to assemble a cohort of faculty to implement
certain interventions in science classrooms. Due to COVID-19 instructional challenges, the group did
not receive enough applications to implement the cohort model in fall 2021 or spring 2022. Instead,
the group is creating stand-alone modules for faculty who are able to implement any portion of the
in-class interventions. The subcommittee is leading reassessment of the outcome in spring 2022.
The College assessed the remaining four GE outcomes for the first time in fall 2020.
Information Literacy Process and Improvement
As one of the outcomes that reaches across the GE curriculum, SLAC led assessment of Information
Literacy with assistance from a group of Library faculty. After reviewing potential assessment tools,
the groups settled on a custom quiz from the Project for Standardized Assessment of Information
Literacy Skills (SAILS). Using this method allowed Library faculty to align the quiz questions with
the College’s Information Literacy outcome, while ensuring measurement of specific skills. The
Assessment Office used the SAILS platform to send the assessment to all students enrolled in GE
courses, with incentives for both completing and doing well on the assessment. 489 students
completed the quiz.
SLAC and subcommittee faculty shared the results of this assessment at the August and October 2021
In-Services. At the October event, SLAC and the subcommittees led workshops designed to engage
faculty in the improvement planning process. The Information Literacy group used this time to
discuss the items on the SAILS quiz that fewer than 70% of students answered correctly, and
consider how to improve student learning in these areas. The group used this information and the
discussions from In-Services to develop the Information Literacy Improvement Plan. 
The Information Literacy Improvement Plan focuses on developing student skills in the areas that
need attention based on the assessment results: Disinformation and Evaluating Sources, Topic
Development, Source Evaluation using the SIFT Method, Researching Background Information, and
Plagiarism. Library faculty created lessons for students in these areas that are being distributed to
teaching faculty as possible inclusion into their own courses; taught as standalone workshops in the
Library, both virtually and face-to-face; and taught as lessons as appropriate during Library
Instruction classes. Reassessment is scheduled for fall 2022. 
Cultural and Historical Comprehension Process and Improvement
A subcommittee of SLAC led this assessment. In summer 2020, the Assessment Office randomly
selected course sections aligned to this outcome for artifact collection in fall 2020. Following a
slightly modified version of the Critical Thinking process used in fall 2019, the Assessment Office
contacted faculty teaching these sections, provided information and training, and offered one-on-one
assistance as needed. The subcommittee created a set of prompts for faculty to use in their courses as
well as a rubric to score student artifacts and provided that rubric to faculty. The Assessment Office
managed artifact collection and scoring through the Blackboard Outcomes system. Due to COVID-19
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 79

restrictions on large group gatherings, a small set of faculty (GEARs) scored the artifacts in spring
2021. 
SLAC and the subcommittee shared results of the assessment with faculty at August and October
2021 In-Services. At October 2021 In-Service, the Cultural and Historical Comprehension group and
other faculty, mainly from the arts and humanities disciplines, discussed concerns over the process
used for assessing this GE outcome. The chair of the subcommittee shared these conversations at
subsequent SLAC meetings, and SLAC considered possible improvements for future assessment
cycles. For example, SLAC plans to improve communication on the purpose and meaning of the GE
outcomes with faculty and highlight the one-on-one assistance available to faculty whose sections are
included in the assessment. This information was used to build the Cultural and Historical
Comprehension Improvement Plan based on improving the assessment process for this outcome.
Reassessment is scheduled for fall 2022.
 Expression and Exchange of Ideas Process and Improvement
This assessment followed a similar process to Cultural and Historical Comprehension. After
sampling Expression and Exchange of Ideas courses in summer 2020, the Assessment Office
contacted faculty teaching sampled sections and provided information, training, one-on-one
assistance as needed, as well as the rubric developed by the subcommittee. Faculty GEARS scorers
normed the rubric and assessed the artifacts in Blackboard in spring 2021, using a third reader when
scores fell more than one point apart.
SLAC and the subcommittee shared results of the assessment with faculty at August and October
2021 In-Services. The subcommittee focused on “coherence” at October 2021 In-Service as the rubric
area where students earned the lowest scores. Faculty from across the College generated ideas for
activities and teaching techniques for helping students improve coherence in their written and oral
communications. The group used this information and the discussions from the August session to
develop the Expression and Exchange of Ideas Improvement Plan. Reassessment is scheduled for fall
2022.
 Human Behavior and Societal Knowledge Process and Improvement
This assessment again followed a similar process to other fall 2020 assessments. The Assessment
Office provided information, training, and the rubric to faculty whose course sections were sampled
for the fall 2020 assessment. Additionally, this subcommittee developed a special online professional
development class for faculty in Social and Behavioral Sciences aimed at improving assignment
design prior to this assessment. GEARS scorers again normed and assessed the artifacts in
Blackboard in spring 2021.
At October 2021 In-Service, the Human Behavior and Societal Knowledge group discussed what
faculty might do to solicit higher responses from students on the “Applies methods of inquiry” and
“Identifies causes and variations of social diversity” rubric rows. Much of this discussion focused on
assignment design and formative assessment. The group used this information and the discussions
from the August session to develop the Human Behavior and Societal Knowledge Improvement Plan.
Reassessment is scheduled for fall 2022.
Conclusion: General Education Assessment and Embedded Monitoring
College of DuPage made large gains in its General Education assessment and improvement efforts in
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 80

recent years. SLAC and the new Assessment Office developed a working partnership that ensures
regular assessment of all seven outcomes. Use of In-Service for large-scale assessment discussions
allows faculty from departments across the College to contribute regularly to GE improvements.
Partnerships and alignment with Faculty Professional Development and Adjunct Faculty Support
helped to embed conversations around topics such as critical thinking and equity in teaching and
learning outside traditional conversations about “assessment.” These changes show movement in the
culture of teaching and learning at the College that we expect will continue as assessment and
improvement processes become increasingly normalized.
We also continue to make improvements and learn from our assessment work. We recognize that
areas and individuals at the College embrace assessment to different degrees. To consider the
successes and future challenges around college-wide assessment, SLAC completed a self-assessment
in spring 2021 using the National Institute for Learning Outcomes Assessment (NILOA) Excellence
in Assessment rubric. Based on the results of this self-assessment, SLAC identified realistic areas for
improvement and built many of these into 2021-22 goals for the committee. Next academic year,
SLAC will review progress toward these goals, feedback from faculty regarding GE assessment,
additional assessment results, and feedback from HLC reviewers when conducting the scheduled
review of the GE assessment plan in FY2023.
CO-CURRICULAR ASSESSMENT: EMBEDDED MONITORING REPORT
The 2017 and 2019 HLC reviewers also requested additional evidence of ongoing improvements of
co-curricular assessment. Thus, this section of the report serves as embedded monitoring of co-
curricular assessment at COD and includes information for co-curricular assessment related to all
sections of Criterion 4.B.
In spring 2019-20, the Assessment Office and SLAC developed a plan to ensure more coordinated
assessment of co-curricular programming. The plan included:
1. Create structure: Form Co-Curricular Assessment Committee to guide this work
2. Provide professional development
Faculty workshops
Student Affairs trainings
3. Collect data and improvement information
Add “Co-Curricular” assessment choice to academic Program Review Annual Updates
Gather assessment information from Student Affairs areas through new SOAP grid
Align select questions on Program Review student surveys with co-curricular offerings
4. Connect
Meta-analysis of the findings from above
Hold College-wide Co-Curricular Assessment Conference
In 2020, SLAC formed the Co-Curricular Assessment subcommittee. During the 2020-21 academic
year, the subcommittee reviewed the COD and HLC definitions of co-curricular programming,
determining a more concise version would 1) help COD faculty and staff better understand how and
where co-curriculars fit in the COD student experience; and 2) better align with the HLC definition.
In spring 2021, the committee shared a revised draft definition. After gathering feedback from SLAC
and Student Affairs leadership, the committee adopted the following definition:
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 81

Learning activities, programs, and experiences that align with and reinforce the formal
curriculum.
Also in 2020, the Co-Curricular group began professional development sessions related to co-
curricular assessment. In October, “Measuring the Magic: Getting started with co-curricular student
club assessment” not only helped club advisors consider how their clubs might address GE outcomes,
but also began discussions on the differences between co-curricular and extra-curricular experiences
at COD. These discussions also informed the subcommittee’s work revising the co-curricular
definition.
In fall 2019 and spring 2020, the Director of Assessment met with Student Affairs to engage in a
similar process to the assessment reporting already occurring in the academic areas. The Assessment
Office created a grid and accompanying documentation, mirroring the academic SOAP process (see
below). This documentation also included definitions to help Student Affairs differentiate between
“learning” and “support” outcomes, in recognition of the different ways that Student Affairs works
with students. The Director of Assessment met with Student Affairs again in fall 2021 to encourage
continued use of the grid for assessment in these areas as co-curricular activities become more
prominent again.
In fall 2020, the Assessment Office added a “Co-Curricular” assessment choice to the academic
Program Review Annual Updates to encourage faculty to share their co-curricular assessment plans
and results using the same process as program and course assessment (see below).
Based on this work, COD continues to increase its use of co-curricular assessment. Examples
include:
Student Life uses an Impact Survey each spring to indirectly assess student learning across the
College’s student programming. The 2021 survey assesses student skills in several areas,
including three tied to the College’s GE Student Learning Outcomes: Other Perspectives and
Social Responsibility tie to Cultural & Historical Comprehension; and Verbal Communication
ties to Expression and Exchange of Ideas. Previous years' surveys also tied to the GE Learning
Outcomes.
Counseling faculty developed student learning and student support outcomes for their area. The
Counseling student learning outcomes were revised in 2019-20 as part of the Counseling
assessment plan. Faculty developed rubrics to assess student learning in each of three courses,
which students take to assist them in being successful in their educational goals. Results are
used to make course-level improvements, including changes to the course's Master Syllabus.
The Living Leadership Program has two phases that help students build their leadership skills
and confidence while actively participating in the COD community. Students are tracked
throughout the program, and program graduates complete a capstone project to assess learning
at the end of the program. The program and student capstones are reviewed as part of the
program's annual review process.
College of DuPage Library's Annual Student Research Symposium highlights COD student
research, such as papers, presentations, posters, objects, and theatrical and musical
performances. Library faculty evaluate submissions and designate awards based on a rubric
that measures each student’s research process, search strategy, and sources. The Symposium
also provides the College community with best practice examples from students related to the
GE Information Literacy outcome.
Learning Communities (LC) uses their assessment work to consider learning, educational, and
engagement outcomes. Recent assessments examine the impact of LCs on integrated learning
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 82

(student learning outcome); student retention, persistence, and success; and student
engagement.
As academic and pre-professional clubs regain membership and momentum after the early stages of
the pandemic, learning assessment at the club level will also expand. Beginning in 2020, five-year
program review meetings include a focused discussion of co-curricular assessment to help programs
determine improvements for these assessment practices.
As of this writing, the subcommittee is planning a Co-Curricular Assessment Poster Session for April
2022. This event will allow faculty and staff who assessed co-curricular learning to share their
findings and next steps.
ADDITIONAL ASSESSMENT INFORMATION
4.B.1 and 4.B.2 Program and Course Assessment Processes and Use of Results
All programs and disciplines at the College identify learning outcomes and share them through the
program and program map web pages on the COD website. Students receive course learning
objectives for all courses on syllabi. Objectives on syllabi reflect the Master Syllabus (previously
Active Course File, or ACF) which is common across all course sections for every course offered at
COD. The academic divisions check for alignment between syllabi and Master Syllabi each semester,
and the Curriculum Office manages Master Syllabi using the College’s curriculum management
software, Courseleaf. See 4.A.4 for additional information about the curriculum process.
Program and course assessment plans, reports, and improvement information integrate into Student
Outcomes Assessment Projects, or SOAPs. SOAPs use a continuous improvement model:
Column 1. Identify program/discipline outcomes, course objectives, or co-curricular outcomes
for assessment
Column 2. If Column 1 included a course objective, define the Related Program/Discipline
Outcome(s) (optional)
Column 3. Align outcome or objective from Column 1 with Related GE Outcome(s)
Column 4. Define Assessment Measures/Method
Column 5. Summarize Assessment Results
Column 6. Explain Use of Results to improve student learning (changes to curriculum,
pedagogy, assessment plan or outcomes, etc.)
Programs/departments report these assessment efforts in the Program Review Annual Update. All
career programs are required to choose assessments related to program learning outcomes annually,
while transfer areas can assess at the course or program/discipline level. Chairs are responsible for
Annual Update/SOAP submissions, but all faculty are expected to participate in assessment processes
as appropriate for the courses and programs they teach. See 4.A for additional information about the
Program Review and Annual Update processes.
Recently, the College clarified expectations regarding assessment in dual credit courses to ensure
there is regular, common assessment across sections in courses offered in dual credit courses. The
Director of Assessment and Dual Credit/Dual Enrollment shared these expectations with faculty in
2020 and 2021. Initial training for dual credit instructors took place through the Dual Credit
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 83

Orientation required of instructors beginning in fall 2020. For courses where these practices were not
already in place, the Assessment Office encouraged the development of new assessments. The results
and improvements from these assessments are included in the annual SOAP summaries along with
other course assessment information. Faculty are asked to disaggregate these assessment results to
ensure the high school students are meeting the same levels of achievement as other students in the
same course. The Director of Assessment and Manager of Learning Technologies assist with
planning implementation as needed, for example using Blackboard to administer the common
assessments.
As explained above, the SOAP process includes defining use of assessment results for improvement.
Improvements include changes to curriculum, pedagogy, professional development, or assessment.
Departments also report assessment results and use of results over time in their five-year program
reviews. Through the program review, departments reflect on the previous five-year period to
summarize improvements made because of assessment. Additional information about program review
is available in 4.A.1.
4.B.3 Good Practice and Engagement
The institution’s processes and methodologies to assess student learning reflect good practice,
including the substantial participation of faculty, instructional and other relevant staff members.
The GE Assessment Plan and program/discipline SOAPs use models of continuous improvement.
These models ensure integration of planning, implementation, and improvement within each cycle.
The Assessment Office disaggregates GE assessment results and engages conversations about those
results to help ensure the College identifies and improves on equity gaps.
GE assessment includes participation of faculty 1) through the leadership and planning of SLAC and
its subcommittees; 2) when a FT or adjunct faculty member’s section is randomly included in a
sample; 3) during the scoring process; and 4) when assessment results are shared and improvements
are planned. Each department’s faculty leads program and course assessment in that area with
assistance from the Assessment Office as needed. As academic and pre-professional clubs regain
momentum, faculty will also engage in learning assessment related to that co-curricular
programming.
The Assessment Office and SLAC work together to communicate with and provide professional
development opportunities to the College community. The most significant opportunity for large-
scale collaboration is at In-Service, which takes place in August, October, and January each academic
year. Topics at these In-Service workshops and presentations included updates on each of the GE
assessments, “Critical Thinking in the Context of Your Discipline”, and “Using Blackboard for
Assessment”. The College also hosted the (virtual) 25th Annual Illinois Community College
Assessment Fair in February 2021, which brought together over 250 colleagues from COD and other
Illinois community colleges around the theme “Assessment Work is Equity Work.”
The Assessment Office provides workshops and videos throughout the year on topics such as
alternate assessments, classrooms assessment techniques, and assessing in the remote environment.
The Office also facilitated a series of workshops following the 2021 Assessment Fair related to equity
and assessment. The Director presents at least once during the annual New Faculty Institute to ensure
incoming faculty are aware of assessment processes and the growing culture of assessment at the
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 84

College. Department, team, and individual consultations are also a regular part of the support
provided by the Assessment Office.
Faculty and staff involved in assessment can find extensive training and support materials in the
Assessment section of Blackboard. The Assessment Office manages these resources, which include
information about how to use assessment to make improvements, general education assessment and
improvement, and help using Blackboard’s assessment tools.
In 2021, SLAC completed a reflective assessment of the College’s institutional assessment practices
and culture using the National Institute for Learning Outcomes Assessment (NILOA) Excellence in
Assessment rubric . This work led to development of areas for improvement and goals, which are
providing the committee with direction for future assessment work at COD.
SLAC is also working to ensure students are aware of the general education outcomes. Recently,
these efforts included:
2019-20: Developed and posted General Education Outcomes icons and banners on campus
2020-21: Investigated how to best share these outcomes with students during remote learning
2021-22: Introduced full-time faculty to student-friendly language for learning outcomes at
October In-Service
2022-23: (Goal) Implement student-friendly descriptions of general education outcomes
alongside online learning banners and backgrounds]
Finally, recent implementation of the Blackboard Outcomes Assessment module helps COD gather
student work to facilitate juried assessment processes. GE assessment for four of the seven outcomes
uses the system, as well as select department SOAPs where faculty determine a juried process is
beneficial. The addition of this tool and use across full-time faculty during January 2020 In-Service
also led to increased use of other assessment tools within Blackboard, such as its primary assessment
tools for pre- and post-test assessments. All of these tools help the Assessment Office provide results
by demographic group to improve identification and improvement of equity gaps.
Sources
2020-2021 Student Research Symposium _
20210413 Learning Community Executive Summary
3.B.1 and 3.B.2_4.B_associate-arts-degree-requirements
4.A.4_4.B.1 and 4.B.2_Dual Credit Orientation syllabus updated spring 2022
4.B CCA_CoCurricular Assessment Choice
4.B CCA_Core Component 4.B._ What Does HLC Mean by Cocurricular_ _ Policies
4.B CCA_Measuring the Magic_ Getting started with co-curricular student club assessment
4.B CCA_Page 62 Prev Definitions HLC Focused Visit Report 2019
4.B CCA_Page 62 Prev Definitions HLC Focused Visit Report 2019 (page number 62)
4.B CCA_Student Affairs assessment grid_documentation updated 12-1-2021.docx - Google
Docs
4.B CCA_Student Affairs assessment grid_documentation updated 12-1-2021.docx - Google
Docs (page number 3)
4.B.1 and 4.B.2_EARTH_THEAT_LIBRA_DMIR_Combined Program Annual Update
2020.doc
4.B.1 and 4.B.2_program and program map web pages
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 85

4.B.1. and 4.B.2._Assessment in Dual Credit Courses
4.B.1. and 4.B.2._Expectations Assessment Dual Credit
4.B.1. and 4.B.2._How to Complete SOAP Summary
4.B.1_2020 Effective Communication Rubric
4.B.1_4.B.1 and 4.B.2_EARTH_THEAT Combined Program Annual Update 2020.doc (1).pdf
4.B.1_4.B.1 and 4.B.2_EARTH_THEAT Combined Program Annual Update 2020.doc (1).pdf
(page number 3)
4.B.1_4.B.3_Excellence in Assessment rubric
4.B.1_4.B.3_Page 2_Agenda October 2020 In-Service.docx - Google Docs
4.B.1_4.B.3_Page 2_Agenda October 2020 In-Service.docx - Google Docs (page number 2)
4.B.1_4.B.3_SLAC Goals
4.B.1_Adding outcome alignments in Blackboard ExpressExchangeComms
4.B.1_Adding outcome alignments in Blackboard SBS-HBSK
4.B.1_Assessment Academy
4.B.1_August 2021 InService Agenda
4.B.1_Blackboard organization
4.B.1_Blackboard Outcomes Materials
4.B.1_cocurricular assessment plan
4.B.1_Critical Thinking Assessment Results feedback Themes.docx - Google Docs
4.B.1_Critical Thinking Assessment Results handout
4.B.1_Critical Thinking Improvement Plan
4.B.1_Critical Thinking Process and Results Feedback emails
4.B.1_Critical Thinking Repository
4.B.1_CT Assessment Communication
4.B.1_CT Assessment Course Sections
4.B.1_CT Assessment InService Jan 2020
4.B.1_CT Rubric adapted version
4.B.1_CT Rubric previous version
4.B.1_Cult-Hist Comprehension Prompts fall 2020
4.B.1_Cult-Hist Comprehension Rubric(1)
4.B.1_Disinformation and Evaluating Sources - IL Lesson Plan sp22
4.B.1_EEI Improvement Plan 2021-22.docx
4.B.1_EIA blank -Designation-Evaluation-Rubric-2021
4.B.1_FY21 Gen Ed Assessment Training for Faculty CHC Adding Alignment
4.B.1_FY21 Gen Ed Juried Bb Assessment Training for Faculty CHC(1)
4.B.1_FY21 Gen Ed Juried Bb Assessment Training for Faculty ExpressExchange
4.B.1_FY21 Gen Ed Juried Bb Assessment Training for Faculty SBS
4.B.1_General Education Critical Thinking Results Session Spring 2020-long
4.B.1_HBSK Improvement Plan 2021-22.docx
4.B.1_Lawson Test of Scientific Reasoning
4.B.1_new Artifacts scored in General Education Assessments
4.B.1_Page 5_General Education Critical Thinking Results Overview 2019-20
4.B.1_Page 5_General Education Critical Thinking Results Overview 2019-20 (page number
5)
4.B.1_Page 5_Spring 2020 Scientific Reasoning Results Overview
4.B.1_Page 5_Spring 2020 Scientific Reasoning Results Overview (page number 3)
4.B.1_Page 5_Spring 2020 Scientific Reasoning Results Overview (page number 5)
4.B.1_pd sessions_CT College Workshop.pptx
4.B.1_Plagiarism Lesson Plan sp 22
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 86

4.B.1_PROJECT SAILS TEST
4.B.1_QR modified assessments
4.B.1_Quantitative Reasoning Improvement Plan 2020-21.docx
4.B.1_Researching background Information for Topics in History - Library Instruction Session
sp22
4.B.1_rev Cultural Historical Comprehension Improvement Plan 2021-22.docx
4.B.1_rev Scientific Reasoning Improvement Plan 2020-21.docx
4.B.1_Revised GEAR information spring 2021.docx - Google Docs
4.B.1_Save Yourself Time! Assessment Design (for the SBS) - YouTube
4.B.1_SBS Rubric 6.24.2020
4.B.1_Science Equity Collective Infographic
4.B.1_Shared Doc Fall In-service 2021 - Expression and Exchange of Ideas.docx.pdf
4.B.1_SIFT - Source Evaluation -- Library Workshop sp22
4.B.1_Slide 12 General Education Info Lit Results August 2021
4.B.1_Slide 12 General Education Info Lit Results August 2021 (page number 12)
4.B.1_Spring 2020 Quantitative Reasoning Results Overview
4.B.1_Spring 2020 Quantitative Reasoning Results Overview (page number 3)
4.B.1_Spring 2020 Quantitative Reasoning Results Overview (page number 4)
4.B.1_Spring 2020 Scientific Reasoning Results Overview
4.B.1_SR Assessment InService Oct 2020
4.B.1_SR RFE Grant Application
4.B.1_SR Test Modified Version
4.B.1_STEM Experience Discussions May 2021 (1)
4.B.1_STEM Experience Results PPT Spring 2021.v2
4.B.1_STEM Experience Survey Summary Spring 2021.V2
4.B.1_Topic Development_ Library Workshop sp22
4.B.1_ValidityevaluationoftheLawsonclassroomtestofscientificreasoning
4.B.3_Assessment Fair Agenda Webpage
4.B.3_assessment pd
4.B.3_assessment section of Blackboard.pdf
4.B.3_assessment videos
4.B.3_Equity Work Postings Cornerstone
4.B.3_faculty development october inservice 2020
4.B.3_faculty development october inservice 2020 (page number 2)
4.B.3_Gen Ed October 2021 In-Service presentation
4.B.3_NFI assessment info Feb 2020
4.B.3_SLAC Meetings_Investigated Sharing Outcomes
4.B.3_SLAC Meetings_Investigated Sharing Outcomes (page number 30)
4.B.3_SLOStudentEngagement InService Oct 2021
4.B.3_Using Blackboard Assessment InService Oct 2020
4.B.3_workshops
4.B_4.B.1_General Education Assessment Plan
4.B_QR Question Sets.pdf
4.B_SLAC Charter_Membership
4.B_SLAC Subcommittees.pdf
CIT 1111_ Computer and Hardware Maintenance
Co-curricular assessment meeting notes and agendas 2020-21
CODLibraryResearchSymposiumandAwardRubric
COLLG 1115 changes
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 87

Gen Ed Learning Outcomes Flyer
Gen Ed Learning Outcomes Flyer outcomes-back
Gen Ed Learning Outcomes poster-front
Learning Communities Fall 2021 Summary
Living Leadership Program Annual Report 2019-2020
NLCC 2021 Presentation Final
Outcomes.COLLG.Data.2021
rev Information Literacy Improvement Plan 2021-22.pdf
Samiha Syed Living Leadership Program (1)
SLAC Agendas and Notes 2020-21
Student Life Assessment Summary
Student Life Programs Impact Survey Summary. Spring 2021
Student_Club_Impact_Survey_Spring_2019_Summary (1)
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 88

4.C - Core Component 4.C
The institution pursues educational improvement through goals and strategies that improve retention,
persistence and completion rates in its degree and certificate programs.
1. The institution has defined goals for student retention, persistence and completion that are
ambitious, attainable and appropriate to its mission, student populations and educational
offerings.
2. The institution collects and analyzes information on student retention, persistence and
completion of its programs.
3. The institution uses information on student retention, persistence and completion of programs
to make improvements as warranted by the data.
4. The institution’s processes and methodologies for collecting and analyzing information on
student retention, persistence and completion of programs reflect good practice. (Institutions
are not required to use IPEDS definitions in their determination of persistence or completion
rates. Institutions are encouraged to choose measures that are suitable to their student
populations, but institutions are accountable for the validity of their measures.)
Argument
4.C.1 Ambitious, Attainable, and Appropriate Goals
College of DuPage has ambitious but attainable student success goals related to retention, persistence,
and completion. The College defines and assesses goals related to these metrics as part of our
planning and continuous improvement processes.
The Strategic Long Range Plan (SLRP) ensures Student Success is central to the work of the College.
As one of four Strategic Pillars, Student Success in the SLRP includes the broad Supporting Goal
“Improve student persistence, completion, transfer, and job obtainment.”
Focused student success improvements have been underway since at least 2008, but new leadership
redefined this work more recently. In October 2018, the Provost discussed his vision for the College
to become a national model of student success with faculty and other members of Academic and
Student Affairs. Major components of his vision included persistence, graduation, transfer, and
employment. Leadership then set the goal that the College would become a "national model of
student success."
To focus these efforts further, the Provost included a goal to “Develop targets for success applicable
to the student body as a whole” as part of his 2020-21 Annual Plan goals, aligned with the 2017-21
SLRP goal of “Value Added Education” and the Key Strategy “To advance student success.” This led
to adoption of the Key Performance Indicator (KPI) “Increase of 1% for 3-year completion rates for
full and part-time students” in the 2021-22 Annual Plan. The new KPI aligns with the Student
Success Strategic Pillar in the 2022-26 SLRP. This work includes specific action steps, such as
expanding the First Year Experience Pilot, improving program and transfer maps, and increasing
participation in the Math and English Transitions programs.
Within the Student Success context, in 2020 the College also set goals for increasing completion
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 89

rates as part of our Illinois Equity in Attainment Initiative Equity Plan. These goals focused on
improving the overall College completion rates for Black, Latinx, and under-resourced (Pell)
students. Additionally, the College developed goals for lead indicators of Student Success as part of
the Equity Plan: Math and English Completion in the First Year and Semester-to-Semester
Persistence. The College is also working with Partnership for College Completion, National Student
Clearinghouse, and Achieving the Dream to develop revised metrics using the Postsecondary Data
Partnership (PDP) dashboards. The PDP dashboards can better measure benchmarks than IPEDS
data especially with respect to disaggregating by race/ethnicity and Pell-status and filtering/sorting by
Math and English completion, credits accumulated, course success rates, persistence, and
completion.
The Equity Plan goals are based on a set of strategies designed to improve success with a focus on the
identified student groups. These strategies included developing a Multicultural Center; providing
equity training for faculty, staff, and students; and improving employee recruitment and hiring
practices through an equity lens. The College added improving student financial access, wellness,
and success as a fourth strategy later in 2020.
4.C.2 and 4.C.3 Analysis and Use of Data
Retention, persistence, and completion are reviewed at the program level through the Program
Review and Annual Update processes (see 4.A.). Programs defined goals related to these metrics as
part of their 2019 Annual Update submissions. Programs were asked to update or reaffirm those
goals on the 2021 Annual Updates. As described in 4.A., Annual Updates also include information
about the progress programs have made toward the goals they set during the five-year program
review.
The institution also implemented College-wide changes to improve retention, persistence, and
completion within its programs. The most far-reaching of these is Guided Pathways. The College
adopted the Pathways model after reviewing student success data at faculty in-services, Board of
Trustee Meetings, and open forums. Data sources included the Integrated Postsecondary Education
Data System (IPEDS), National Community College Benchmarking Project (NCCBP), Noel-Levitz
Student Satisfaction Inventory Survey (SSI), Community College Survey of Student Engagement
(CCSSE), and Personal Assessment of the College Environment (PACE). In addition, data on five-
year persistence, D,F,W courses, midterm verification, first-generation students, underrepresented
students, financial aid, and socio-economic status were analyzed.
The College then included Guided Pathways in the 2017-21 SLRP: “Support student completion
within 150 percent of normal time (e.g., three years for an associate’s degree) by implementing a
guided pathways approach to programs and degrees.” Since that time, the College made significant
improvements for students and continues to use Pathways to improve student success. Progress
includes:
Implemented Academic and Career Pathways aligned with programs across the College.
Opened the Center for Student Success with Navigators to help students streamline the steps to
reach their goals.
Developed and posted program completion maps.
Completed program transfer maps for transferring to the most common destinations of COD
students.
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 90

Implemented expanded Chaparral Experience (first year experience) pilot in 2021-22.
Continuing goals include:
Fine-tuning program maps and transfer maps with the implementation of Courseleaf
(curriculum management software).
Updating the Chaparral Experience based on pilot results.
The College has also updated access to the planning metrics that are most important to these efforts.
Research & Analytics implemented dashboards in Tableau to provide access to dynamic results of
Student Success metrics. See 4.C.4 for additional information about data methodology and processes.
The Student Success metrics dashboards include AACC Pathways metrics (early momentum metrics,
persistence, and completion). The dashboards allow COD employees to see these metrics in relation
to race/ethnicity, gender, age, full-time or part-time status, developmental status, and program.
Although recent results are encouraging in some lead indicators, such as the percentage of diverse
racial/ethnic groups completing college-level English and Math in the first year, the College
continues its efforts to improve student success. For example, in addition to continuing the Pathways
work described above, the College is working to improve student retention, persistence, and
completion through initiatives such as the English Accelerated Learning Program, Transitions Math,
a Summer 2022 Gateway Teaching Summit to establish funded Communities of Practice for 2022-23,
and development of a “loss funnel” data model to understand and address student attrition.
Finally, the Provost’s area is currently reviewing the most recent iterations of CCSSE and SSI results
to determine next steps. Goals based on these survey results will be presented to the Board of
Trustees in April 2022.
4.C.4 Methodology and Process
Through its Research & Analytics and Information Technology Departments, the College has
developed the infrastructure to collect, analyze, and use data effectively, with an emphasis on student
success. Using a defined process to ensure consistency and accuracy a variety of data (i.e.,
admissions, academic, student support, extracurricular, behavioral and other) is extracted, loaded,
and transformed into meaningful information to facilitate data-informed decision-making.
To make this data and information available to all staff, a Research & Planning Team Site is
available on the Employee Portal. The site provides a “one-stop-shop” for data for internal
stakeholders (e.g., Faculty, staff, administrators). The team site has a variety of “tiles,” with each tile
containing pertinent and useful data and information, including: enrollment statistics by term;
student success data including course retention and success, guided pathways metrics, term-to-term
persistence, completion and transfer, and employment; survey reports; community reports; college
benchmarking reports; institutional planning documents; and reference documents.
As part of COD’s drive to improve data-informed decision-making, the Office of Research &
Analytics continues to develop a series of visual analytical dashboards designed to provide up-to-date
statistics disaggregated by key factors. All dashboards provide the capability to filter the statistical
information presented by a variety of student and course-level characteristics. The data presented in
these dashboards are automatically updated on a daily basis. The first phase of this project was
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 91

focused on providing the Provost’s Office with the data and information to help inform Guided
Pathways and other student success initiatives. To date, visual analytical dashboards in the following
areas are available to leadership and employees via a link on the Employee Portal.
Enrollment KPI
Course Success
Guided Pathways Metrics
Retention / Persistence
Academic Program Progression and Completion
Transfer and Completion
During the fall and spring enrollment cycles, a daily enrollment report is produced and posted to the
Research and Planning Team Site, making it available to the College community. The report
provides easy-to-interpret, year-over-year analysis of enrollment at the subject level. A more
comprehensive 10th Day Enrollment Stoplight Report is also produced each fall and spring term
following 10th day census. This report helps to identify and analyze enrollment trends at the subject
level and includes FTE enrollment and dual credit students. New student onboarding is also tracked
by an Enrollment Map Report which allows the College to see the status of our new students in the
enrollment funnel. This report allows us to engage with our students if they are “stuck” at a certain
enrollment step and offer support as needed.
Research & Analytics also performs ad hoc reports and studies for the College community. The Team
Site includes a “Data Request” form for these requests. After a user completes the form, including
identifying the impact of the research on the College’s strategic goals, the Research & Analytics team
reviews and prioritizes requests. Team members regularly meet with requestors to ensure the correct
information is included in the response. 
Finally, the College believes that it is important to not only know the trends related to our own data,
but it is important to compare those trends to other like institutions. Therefore, COD participates in
the National Community College Benchmarking Project (NCCBP), the largest community college
comparative database in the United States. NCCBP data is used by a variety of stakeholders and is
shared on the Team Site. Other comparative data regularly collected, analyzed, and shared include:
Illinois Community College Board (ICCB)
Integrated Postsecondary Education Data System (IPEDS)
Personal Assessment of the College Environment (PACE): Nationally normed survey
measuring staff satisfaction and workplace climate (three-year cycle)
Community College Survey of Student Engagement (CCSSE): Nationally normed survey
measuring student engagement and limited indirect measures of student learning (three-year
cycle)
Noel-Levitz Student Satisfaction Inventory (SSI): Nationally normed survey measuring student
satisfaction and priorities (three-year cycle)
Sources
3.C.1_4.C.1_Illinois Equity in Attainment Initiative Equity Plan
3.C.1_4.C.1_Illinois Equity in Attainment Initiative Equity Plan (page number 29)
3.D.2_4.C.2 and 4.C.3_Chaparral Experience_College of DuPage
4.C.1_4.C.2 and 4.C.3_SLRP 2017-2021 Final
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 92

4.C.1_4.C.2 and 4.C.3_SLRP 2017-2021 Final (page number 13)
4.C.1_Fall 2019 In-Service
4.C.1_Fall 2019 In-Service (page number 17)
4.C.1_History of the Student Success Council 10 2017
4.C.1_Page 18_2021-22 Annual Plan
4.C.1_Page 18_2021-22 Annual Plan (page number 18)
4.C.1_Page 7_2020-21 Annual Plan
4.C.1_Page 7_2020-21 Annual Plan (page number 7)
4.C.1_Strategic Long Range Plan 2022 to 2026
4.C.2 and 4.C.3 _ACP
4.C.2 and 4.C.3_AACC Pathways metrics
4.C.2 and 4.C.3_AACC Pathways metrics (page number 5)
4.C.2 and 4.C.3_Academic and Career Pathways
4.C.2 and 4.C.3_Accelerated Learning Program _ English
4.C.2 and 4.C.3_Center for Student Success
4.C.2 and 4.C.3_Guided Pathways_5_2020v2a
4.C.2 and 4.C.3_Math Transitions _ College of DuPage
4.C.2 and 4.C.3_program completion maps
4.C.2 and 4.C.3_Transfer Map examples
4.C.4_10th Day Stop-Light 9-3-2021 final
4.C.4_2020 NCCBP Report Final. 2021 Submission
4.C.4_2021 PACE Employee Survey Report
4.C.4_5_STR044
4.C.4_Analytic Dashboards
4.C.4_Annual_Enroll_Comp_2020_Final
4.C.4_defined process_HLC Focused Visit Report 2019
4.C.4_IPEDS Data Feedback Report 2021
4.C.4_Research and Analytics Data Request Form
4.C.4_Research and Planning Team Site
4.C.4_Spring 2021 Community College Survey of Student Engagement Results
4.C.4_Spring 2021 Ruffalo Noel Levitz Student Satisfaction Inventory Results
Enrollment Map
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 93

4.S - Criterion 4 - Summary
The institution demonstrates responsibility for the quality of its educational programs, learning
environments and support services, and it evaluates their effectiveness for student learning through
processes designed to promote continuous improvement.
Summary
College of DuPage demonstrates responsibility for the quality of our educational offerings, engaging
in ongoing Program Review and student learning assessment. Based on a continuous improvement
model, Program Review includes the five-year review for the State of Illinois, program goals, an
Annual Update to ensure faculty engage with those goals each year, and a connection with Student
Outcomes Assessment Projects (SOAPs). Specialized accreditation and an annual graduate survey
help support efforts to improve student learning and success.
The College continues its work to strengthen our culture and support of learning assessment. In
addition to program/discipline assessment through SOAPs, General Education (GE) Student
Learning Outcomes are assessed on a two-year cycle according to the GE Assessment Plan. Each of
the seven GE outcomes tie back to the GE curriculum for associate degrees. The Student Learning
Assessment Committee (SLAC), its subcommittees, and faculty from across the College engage in
assessing, planning, and improving GE related to those outcomes. Co-curricular assessment
processes have also improved in recent years, despite having more limited co-curricular offerings due
to the pandemic. SLAC recently completed a reflective self-assessment using the NILOA Excellence
in Assessment rubric, and the group is currently working to address goals developed as a result of
that reflection.
The College maintains authority for credits it transcripts, including transfer, experiential learning,
and demonstrated competence. Oversight and responsibility for courses and programs are maintained
through the College and Division Curriculum Committees. Dual credit offerings follow state law and
Illinois Community College Board rules. The College maintains a dual credit/dual enrollment office
and two committees to help ensure standards of excellence continue to be met.
Ambitious but attainable goals to improve student retention, persistence, and completion have been
identified. These goals are tied to the Strategic Long Range Plan and Equity Plan, ensuring
integration with the College’s planning and continuing improvement processes. Data are reviewed at
the program level through Program Review and Annual Updates. At the College level, a variety of
external benchmarking tools are used in conjunction with student success dashboards. Disaggregated
data helps inform decision-making around enrollment, Guided Pathways, and the Equity Plan,
including student persistence and completion.
Sources
There are no sources.
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 94

5 - Institutional Effectiveness, Resources and Planning
The institution’s resources, structures, processes and planning are sufficient to fulfill its mission,
improve the quality of its educational offerings, and respond to future challenges and opportunities.
5.A - Core Component 5.A
Through its administrative structures and collaborative processes, the institution’s leadership
demonstrates that it is effective and enables the institution to fulfill its mission.
1. Shared governance at the institution engages its internal constituencies—including its
governing board, administration, faculty, staff and students—through planning, policies and
procedures.
2. The institution’s administration uses data to reach informed decisions in the best interests of
the institution and its constituents.
3. The institution’s administration ensures that faculty and, when appropriate, staff and students
are involved in setting academic requirements, policy and processes through effective
collaborative structures.
Argument
5.A.1
Shared Governance starts with the College’s Board of Trustees. The Board is charged with
establishing policy for the financing, governance, operation, and administration of the College. Seven
voting members are elected for six-year terms from the district at large, and a non-voting student
trustee is elected by student referendum during spring semester to serve from April to April. Regular
Board meetings are normally held on the third Thursday of each month. All staff, students, and the
public at large is invited to attend the meetings. Board meetings start with a Chair's Report, Student
Trustee's Report, President's Report, and if applicable Committee Reports. In addition, at all Board
meetings, there are a series of presentations from faculty and administration. For example at the July
2021 Board meeting, Professor Michael Duggan presented on the College’s Transition Commons,
the Chief Financial Officer presented on Financial Investments, and the Director of IT presented on
the College’s Information Technology Strategic Plan. Likewise, at the December 2021 Board
meeting, Professor David Goldberg presented a Faculty Spotlight:  Model UN, the Manager of
Project Hire-Ed presented on programs, and the Vice President of Planning and Institutional
Effectiveness presented on recent Noel-Levitz Survey Results. In addition, since summer 2021, the
College’s Chief COVID-19 Officer has provided the Board a monthly update on the College’s
COVID-19 mitigation and resurgence efforts. These reports and presentations offer Board members
the opportunity to hear directly from various College constituencies, ask questions, and provide input
on a variety of relevant College topics and initiatives.   
From a leadership perspective, the College is divided into eight functional areas:  Institutional
Advancement; Legislative Relations; Human Resources; Public Relations, Communications &
Marketing; Provost (Academic & Student Affairs); Planning & Institutional Effectiveness; General
Counsel (who reports primarily to the Board, and secondarily/administratively to the President); and
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 95

Administrative Affairs. Each area is led by a Cabinet Officer, and reports to the President.
Representing each of their functional areas, and collectively focusing on the College’s Strategic Long
Range Plan, these Cabinet Officers and the President meet weekly.  
The College further engages in shared governance processes that include Full-time Faculty, Adjunct
Faculty, Student Leadership Council, Classified Staff, Police Department, Operating Engineers,
Managerial Staff, and Administration. Members from each of the aforementioned constituency
groups are selected/elected by their membership to serve on the Shared Governance Council (SGC).
In addition, the Vice President of Planning and Institutional Effectiveness, is a permanent, non-
voting member of the SGC, and serves as the main conduit between the SGC and the College
President and Cabinet.
The practice of shared governance involves conversations about policies, procedures, and issues of
values, culture, and management, as well as operating frameworks, such as legislation, which are
externally imposed, with an opportunity to present alternatives in such matters. In addition, as the
College began to formulate plans related to the COVID-19 pandemic, the President asked the SGC to
provide ongoing input, and to vet potential mitigation and resurgence efforts. Therefore, COVID-19
is a topic in every meeting. The SGC meets every two weeks during the fall and spring term, and at
other times if needed. For example, prior to the start of spring 2022 term, an emergency SGC
meeting was called to discuss COVID-19 mitigation strategies.
The College believes shared governance is essential to the health and growth of an academic
institution and embraces it as an important and effective way to ensure decisions made reflect the
perspectives, expertise, and best interests of its stakeholders, including students, all employee groups,
and citizens by way of the Board of Trustees.
By having each constituency group of the College on the SGC, there is discourse that results in
collaboration and input on institutionally important topics. Collectively, Shared Governance Council
makes a recommendation in support or opposition of actions to be taken by the decision-making
entities at the College. In support of this, College Policy 1.07 (pg. 37) requires that all new or
modified College policies and procedures be reviewed and input solicited by the SGC, before such
policy or procedure is enacted.
Employees can contact their respective SGC member with ideas or issues to discuss at SGC, or they
can submit a Review Form for that purpose. The SGC also has an electronic suggestion box located
on the Employee Portal. When a suggestion is submitted, the SGC becomes the liaison between
employee and the Cabinet. All ideas are evaluated by the SGC and forwarded to the appropriate
Cabinet Officer for action.  A status update as to whether the idea is viable for implementation is
provided to the individual who supplied the suggestion.
In the 2019-2020 academic year, the SGC noted the following accomplishments: 
SGC participated in a focus group for the Strategic Long Range Plan, providing cross-
constituency input.
Information Technology implemented SGC suggestions regarding the InsideCOD Portal.
The council continued to meet through COVID; all groups shared concerns and brought
questions. They also received updates from Cabinet, and from Student Affairs regarding the
student portion of CARES Act funds.
They reviewed and provided input regarding nine procedures and policies for COD during
Academic Year 2019-2020.
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 96

Beyond the SGC, the College is committed to developing shared governance entities as needs arise.
For example, cross-constituency teams were developed to address enrollment, and diversity, equity,
and inclusion issues. As a result, a Strategic Enrollment Management Plan, and an Equity Plan have
been developed and implemented. Another important example of using shared governance principles
was the development of the 2022-2026 Strategic Long Range Plan. As is noted in Core Component
1.A.1, the Board of Trustees, and every constituency group was involved in providing input into the
plan. With the Strategic Long Range Plan Advisory Committee (SLRPAC), comprised of faculty,
administrators, classified staff, student leadership, and chaired by the Vice President of Planning and
Institutional Effectiveness formulating a draft strategic plan for consideration by the Board.
In the spirit of shared governance, and in order to hear and understand the voice of the students, staff
and community, the College uses a variety of surveys. On a regular basis (every three to four years),
the College administers three national normed surveys, the Ruffalo Noel-Levitz Student Satisfaction
Inventory, the Community College Survey for Student Engagement (CCSSE), and the Personal
Assessment of the College Environment (PACE) survey. Finally, the Research and Analytics Office
administers a variety of surveys when specific information is needed for planning and implementing
initiatives. For example, to assess how well our students were adapting to virtual instruction, and if
we were providing key services (counseling, financial aid, etc.) during the pandemic, the following
surveys were administered: 
Spring 2020: Student COVID-19 Transition Survey
Fall 2020: Student 2020 Check-In Survey
Fall 2020: Student Course Format Survey
Fall 2020: Faculty 2020 Check-In
These surveys helped to informed leadership decisions in mitigation of COVID-19, and resurgence
efforts.
 5.A.2
The College’s Strategic Long Range Plan (SLRP) is based on evidence and fact, and is one of the best
examples of using data and information to make informed decision in the interest of the institution,
and all stakeholders. First, a comprehensive Planning Metrics Report is developed for use by
leadership, the Board, and the Strategic Long Range Plan Advisory Committee.
A comprehensive, Environmental Scan further uses data and evidence to guide the development of
the SLRP. By identifying and understanding external trends, the College develops plans to
proactively meet and address changing needs of our community, students, and other stakeholders.
Through a Community Pulse Survey, the College collects and analyses data on the community’s
attitudes and perceptions about the College’s Image, Academic Reputation, Cost and Value, Loyalty
to the College, Strengths, and Weaknesses, helping leadership set a futuristic direction that is
responsive to needs of the community.  
Driven by the SLRP, and working with their respective area leaders, Cabinet Officers develop an
Annual Plan. The Annual Plan identifies specific actions that the College will take to reach its
Strategic Pillars and Goals. The College’s Cabinet Officers are accountable for the Key Strategies
that make up the Annual Plan. Each Strategy is linked to a Strategic Pillar, has a Key Performance
Indicator (KPI), and defined Action Step, with quarterly due dates. On a quarterly basis, the Cabinet
collectively reviews the progress of each Action Plan and takes the necessary steps to keep the
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 97

College on track for achieving each Strategy.
The College has been a member of the National Community College Benchmarking Project
(NCCBP) since its inception in 2004. The largest community college comparative database in the
nation, NCCBP allows participating community colleges to compare themselves to other institutions
on hundreds of items covering student and institutional measures. College leadership uses the
NCCBP data for a variety of planning and operational purposes. For example, much of the NCCBP
student-level data was used by leadership to create a case for implementing a Guided Pathways model
at the College.
During the enrollment cycle (opening of term enrollment until 10th-day census), leaders are provided
with a variety of daily enrollment updates on the Research and Planning Team Site, housed on the
Employee Portal. Examples of reports include STR044, which provides daily year-over-year
comparisons of Full Time Equivalent Students (FTES) and Head Count, with segmentation of dual
credit and non-dual credit students. This report can provide the comparison on either a subject or a
course level. A daily Enrollment Update Summary is also produced, which shows a year-over-year
comparison by course types, modalities, and student demographics. These reports are used to
monitor, and make real-time adjustments to the Colleges enrollment management strategy during the
enrollment cycle.
In addition to the daily enrollment information, the Research and Planning Team Site also provides
leaders, and all employees, with College Benchmark Reports (e.g., IPEDS Feedback Reports, etc.),
COD Student Success Statistics (e.g., Guided Pathway metrics, grade and success rates by course and
subject, etc.), Survey research reports (e.g., PACE, CCSSE, Noel-Levitz, etc.), Institutional Planning
Documents (e.g., SLRP, Annual Plan, Planning Metrics, etc.), Community Reports (e.g.,
Environmental Scan, Community PULSE Survey, etc.), and Institution References (e.g., Course
Master, Program Classification System, etc.).
The Office of Research and Analytics continues to develop a series of visual analytical
dashboards designed to provide up-to-date statistics disaggregated by key factors. All dashboards
provide the capability to filter the statistical information presented by a variety of student and course
level characteristics. The data presented in these dashboards are automatically updated on a daily
basis. The first phase of this project was focused on providing the Provost’s Office with the data and
information to help drive the College’s Guided Pathways initiative, and student success. To date,
visual analytical dashboards in the following areas are available to leadership and employees via a
link on the Employee Portal.
Enrollment KPI
Course Success
Guided Pathways Metrics
Retention / Persistence
Academic Program Progression and Completion
Transfer and Completion
As part of the Guided Pathways initiative, the College developed the Center for Student Success,
which is committed to ensuring students have the skills, knowledge, resources, and information they
need to successfully pursue their educational goals at the College. The Center is staffed by a
manager, a coordinator, and a team of Student Services Specialists, internally known as Navigators,
who provide ongoing assistance to their assigned group of students. To help their students,
Navigators need real-time data, therefore, the College invested in Starfish, a solution that was
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 98

recently purchased that houses student demographic and performance data and cross departmental
notes helping Navigators to identify areas of concern or students who are at risk. Having this student-
level data, Navigators develop success plans that incorporate skill building, perform proactive
progress monitoring, and coordinate specific individual resource referrals/notes which create a
collaborative system of support for students.
With respect to using financial data, on a monthly basis the Board receives a packet that contains a
set of financial statements, which include:  Schedule of Investments, General Fund – Budget and
Expenditures, Operating Cash Available to Pay Annual Operating Expenses, Disposal of Capital
Assets, Tax Levy Collections, and Budgetary Position Additions. These statements provide the Board
and leadership with up-to-date financial information on the College. On an annual basis, the College
creates a rolling five-year financial projection that leadership uses to make tuition, tax levy, and
budgetary recommendations to the Board. A significant factor that feeds into this projection is
forecasted enrollments for subsequent years. When the pandemic was declared in March 2020, the
College was finalizing the budget that would go to the Board in May. Knowing that the pandemic
would significantly impact enrollment, and the budget, the Office of Planning and Institutional
Effectiveness revised the five-year (2020FA to 2024FA) enrollment forecast. While some community
colleges around the country forecasted a significant increase in enrollment because of potential
unemployment brought on by the pandemic, COD used data and evidence to make the forecast, with
the most likely scenario being an 8.5% decrease in FTES for fall 2020. Using this revised forecast,
the College’s operating budget was adjusted to reflect an 8.5% enrollment decline. Fall 2020
enrollment was actually down 9.3%, and although this was a little more than the forecast, because
the College made the revisions based on fact and evidence, the budget and operations were closely
aligned with actual revenues. 
5.A.3
Involvement of administration, faculty, staff, and students in setting academic requirements, policy
and processes is accomplished in a multitude of ways. As outlined in the Faculty Contract, faculty are
responsible for developing, evaluating, and updating all of the institution’s educational programs.
Full-time faculty lead the curriculum development process ensuring consistent quality, accountability
and adherence to high standards of excellence, while maintaining compliance with all state
requirements and other accrediting bodies. Faculty and academic administrators collaborate to
review, evaluate and update the curriculum and oversee initiation, design, development,
modification, and discontinuance of courses and programs.
The Guide to Curriculum outlines processes and procedures relating to approval requirements for
degrees, certificates and courses. The guide includes forms for proposing, revising or deleting courses
and instructions for approval of new occupational programs, transfer programs, alternative options
within existing programs and apprenticeship programs. It also includes forms for reporting non-
substantial changes to existing programs.
Supporting the curriculum development process are two faculty committees, the College Curriculum
Committee (pg. 6)(CCC)and the Division Curriculum Committee (pg. 4) (DCC). The voting
membership of the CCC is comprised of two full-time faculty members from each Academic
Division; one representative each from Counseling, Learning Resources, and Faculty Senate; and an
administrator from each Academic Division and the Associate Dean, Public Service. The purpose of
the CCC is to:  ensure that each proposal is consistent with college mission and vision statements;
determine whether each proposal is IAI compliant (if applicable) and meets ICCB guidelines; resolve
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 99

issues involving overlap among divisions; and approve, recommend revision, or reject proposals. The
membership and size of specific Divisional Curriculum Committees is determined by the full-time
faculty in the division, with the understanding that it will be representative of its disciplines and
constituencies. The organization and structure of specific DCCs is also determined by the members.
The purpose of the DCC is to:  annually choose members to serve on the College Curriculum
Committee; provide a liaison to the Instruction Committee; ensure that each proposal is consistent
with the College mission and vision statements; ensure that each proposal meets established criteria,
is formatted correctly and has no adverse impact on or overlap with other courses/programs within
the division or the College; resolve intra- and inter-division conflicts arising from a proposal; and
make the final decision for any course numbered in the 1800/2800/1820/2840 range, either to
approve the proposal or to return the proposal for revisions, or to reject the proposal.
During the Academic Program Review Process, input is sought from a variety of sources including
students, faculty, administrators, and community program advisors. To better meet the needs of
students and potential employers, this input is used for evaluation and improvement of the respective
programs.
With respect to College policies concerning academics Policy Manual Section 6:  Academic Affairs
(pg. 234), prior to being presented to the Board for consideration, potential policies are reviewed and
discussed by the Shared Governance Council and posted on the Employee Portal in order to give all
constituency groups an opportunity to provide comment and input. Once presented to the Board, all
potential Board Policies require two readings by the Board prior to adopting. Thereby, giving all
stakeholders, internal and external, the ability to provide input and comment.
Sources
2017 CCSSE Report
2017 Noel-Levitz SSI Survey Results
8 functional areas
Academic Program Review Process
Analytic Dashboards
Annual Compliance Training
Annual Plan 2nd Q Review
annual-plan
Center for Student Success
codfa_agreement
College Policy Manual
College Policy Manual (page number 37)
College Policy Manual (page number 234)
community pulse survey 2019
December 2021 Board Minutes
Emergency SGC Meeting Minutes 01.06.22
Enrollment Updates Summary
Equity Plan 8 14 2020 Final
E-SCAN
Fall 2020 Check in Survey
Fall 2020 Faculty COVID19 Check In
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 100

Fall 2020 Student Course Formats Survey
Financial_Statements_For_Information
Five-Year Enrollment forecasts
fop_agreement
Guide to Curriculum
Guide to Curriculum (page number 4)
Guide to Curriculum (page number 6)
July 2021 Board Minutes
local-399 engineers-agreement
meet weekly cabinet
NCCBP Data
PACE 2017 Report
Planning Metrics for SLRPAC
Research and Planning Team Page
Review form Shared Governance Council Request Form _ Shared Governance Council
Shared Governance Council
SLRP full graphic-final
Spring 2020 Student COVID19 Transition Survey
STR044
Strategic Enrollment Plan
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 101

5.B - Core Component 5.B
The institution’s resource base supports its educational offerings and its plans for maintaining and
strengthening their quality in the future.
1. The institution has qualified and trained operational staff and infrastructure sufficient to
support its operations wherever and however programs are delivered.
2. The goals incorporated into the mission and any related statements are realistic in light of the
institution’s organization, resources and opportunities.
3. The institution has a well-developed process in place for budgeting and for monitoring its
finances.
4. The institution’s fiscal allocations ensure that its educational purposes are achieved.
Argument
5.B.1
Operational Staff
The College meets its operational needs with faculty and staff who are committed to advancing the
Colleges four Strategic Pillars of Student Success; Arts, Culture and Community Engagement;
Economic Development; and Organizational Culture. In FY 2022, the College had 1,279 teaching
faculty (267 full-time and 1,012 adjuncts), 22 Library, Counseling & Advising faculty, 40
administrators, 415 professional/technical staff, 273 clerical staff, and 99 custodial/maintenance
staff, for a total of 2,128 staff.
Staffing levels are considered by division and department leaders during the development of the
Annual Plan. Staffing considerations are determined by reviewing current and future enrollment
trends within programs and current and future student enrollment projections and targets. Each
division monitors course delivery requirements every semester, and the number of full-time and
adjunct faculty is adjusted accordingly to effectively meet the changing capacity requirements of the
College. Staffing for other college-related operational requirements are staffed at the appropriate
levels using a complement of full- and part-time employees and are assessed by department
administrators.
Skills and competencies of faculty and staff are assessed by each division and department, depending
on program, industry and regulatory requirements. Job descriptions are created to support the skills
and competencies needed for each position. Job descriptions identify the duties required of positions,
as well as the minimum and preferred requirements, i.e., years of experience, education, and
licensure. Full-time faculty, administrators, and classified staff credentials are confirmed by Human
Resources while adjunct faculty credentials are confirmed at the department and division level by the
appropriate Dean. When position vacancies become available, Human Resources gathers information
regarding skills and requirements for the position from the appropriate department administrator.
From the information provided by the administrator, a job description and qualifications are created,
or updated and the position is posted. In addition, College Policy 4.02 (pg. 156), ensures that
individuals who join the College’s workforce are qualified for the positions for which they have
applied and have accurately presented their qualifications during the hiring process.
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 102

The College’s performance management system supports high performance, workforce engagement,
student and stakeholder satisfaction by identifying, evaluating and providing feedback for
improvement on criteria that is important to specific job classifications and functions, and setting and
monitoring staff-level goals on a quarterly basis.
With respect to faculty, the College complies with Illinois Community College Board Rule
1501.303(f):  Professional staff shall be educated and prepared in accordance with generally accepted
standards and practices for teaching, supervising, counseling and administering the curriculum or
supporting system to which they are assigned. Such preparation may include collegiate study and
professional experience. Graduate work through the master’s degree in the assigned field or area of
responsibility is expected, except in those areas in which the work experience and related training is
the principal learning medium.
In addition, full-time faculty and administrators are vetted by a search committee who makes
recommendations to the appropriate hiring supervisor. If approved by the hiring supervisor, as
stipulated by the Community College Act (Ch. 122, par. 103-26), the Board of Trustees appoints all
full-time faculty and administrators at an open Board meeting.  
Physical Infrastructure:
Located 25 miles west of downtown Chicago in Glen Ellyn, the College's state-of-the-art campus
comprises nearly two million square feet of facilities on 254 acres, as well as three natural prairie
restoration areas. The College's main campus includes the Rodney K. Berg Instructional Center,
Campus Maintenance Center, Culinary & Hospitality Center, Institutional Resource Center, Health
and Science Center, Homeland Security Training Center, Robert J. Miller Homeland Security
Education Center, Harold D. McAninch Arts Center, Physical Education Center, George L. Seaton
Computing Center, Student Services Center, Student Resource Center and the Technical Education
Center.
In addition, the College operates centers in Addison, Carol Stream, Naperville, and Westmont. The
College‘s four centers many of the same services that are available at COD's campus in Glen Ellyn.
The centers provides large and comfortable classrooms, computer labs, convenient parking and have
Learning Commons, where students can receive a variety of academic support services. All of the
centers offer counseling and advising, registration, payments, ACT/SAT score submission, and voter
registration. The Naperville and Westmont Center’s also provide students with an Anatomy &
Physiology Open Lab.
Since 2010, the College has redeveloped and created new green open spaces, built new parking lots
and developed a new campus street. Collectively, the visual impact of these projects is substantial—
the campus has an improved sense of place with more areas to gather outside, while the parking and
street improvements enhance transportation on campus. Several landscape improvements are focal
points of the campus, including the Lakeside Pavilion, adjacent to the McAninch Arts Center and the
south garden adjacent to the Student Resource Center. During the past decade, the College has
either constructed or renovated all major main campus buildings making the College a modern,
accessible, and functional place for teaching, learning, and cultural experiences.
As required by the Illinois Community College Board, every five years the College updates the
Facility Master Plan. The Facility Master Plan creates a foundation to guide the future physical
growth of the College. The current Facility Master Plan was approved by the Board of Trustees on
February 21, 2019.
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 103

Financial Resources:
As noted in the Annual Comprehensive Financial Report, the College is in a very strong financial
position. In 2021, the College had almost $113 million in unrestricted funds, over $72 million in
restricted funds (debt service, working cash, and capital projects) and over $234 million in capital
assets for a total net position of over $419 million. In comparison, in 2012, the College had a total
net position of $376 million ($128 million in unrestricted funds, $26 million in restricted funds and
$221 million in capital assets). Therefore, over a ten-year period (2012 to 2021) the College’s net
position increased by $43 million or 11 percent.
At the end of each fiscal year, the Board of Trustees directs an audit to be made by an accountant
licensed to practice public accounting in Illinois and appointed by the Board. On November 18, 2021,
the audit finding by the firm of Clifton Larson Allen, LLP for fiscal year ending June 21, 2021, was
presented to and accepted by the Board. The auditors’ opinion stated:  “In our opinion, based on our
audit and the report of the other auditor on the financial statements of the District’s discretely
presented component unit, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material
respects, the respective financial position of the business-type activities of the District and its
discretely presented component unit as of June 30, 2021, and the respective changes in financial
position and, where applicable, cash flow thereof for the year then ended in accordance with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.”
Technological Infrastructure:
In recent years, the College has demonstrated a commitment to introducing technologies that better
integrate College operations, enhance classroom and distance learning opportunities, and modernize
its infrastructure and data management capabilities. Through the College’s investment in
technologies—outfitting all learning spaces with enhanced display technologies, Blackboard and its
synchronous components, classroom capture technologies, ubiquitous Wi-Fi coverage, student and
staff portals, mobile application along with its integrated administrative systems environment—the
College is well positioned to support teaching and learning and the institutional strategic goals. The
Information Technology Strategic Long Range Plan is an integral part of the college-wide process for
institutional planning.
Over the past nine years the College has seen enormous growth in technology infrastructure and use.
For example, all classrooms are technology enhanced; wireless access has grown from three access
points to over 800 access points serving all main campus buildings and centers, with these access
points serving in excess of 40,000 unique devices in a given month; internet access provided by a
single carrier at 30Mb/sec was changed to be provided by two carriers with load balancing and has
grown to 2Gb/sec capacity; disk storage in the main data center has grown from less than 3Tb to over
140Tb; a single data center is now tied to a second data center with full data redundancy and shared
workload; 109 physical servers are now less than 40 physical servers hosting 230+ virtual servers and
growing; and PCs serving students have grown by 34 percent in the last seven years.
Although we have a robust technology infrastructure, the pandemic caused some issues with student
connectivity. Therefore, the College conducted two “Check In Surveys” (spring and fall 2020) to
ascertain how well students were adapting to alternative delivery modes, and if they had any device
availability and connectivity issues. With this data, since the start of the pandemic, the College has
acquired 700 laptops, and 800 hot spots, all designated as loaners for students who do not have
personal devices or connectivity to the internet.
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 104

 5.B.2
 As noted in 5.B.1 above, the College is in a very strong financial position, and has modern state-of-
the art facilities, and a well-trained and qualified work force. The College leverages these resources
and assets by engaging in planning that is future-oriented, and focused on serving our students,
community, and other stakeholders. The College’s strategic long range planning is a continuous
process that guides the future direction of the institution. Specifically, the Strategic Long Range
Plan (SLRP) defines the College’s mission, vision, values, strategic pillars, and associated strategic
goals.
The College’s SLRP is based on the concept of planning “from the outside in.” Therefore, the SLRP
is a map for the development and delivery of programs and services that address community
challenges and needs. With the approval of the Board of Trustees, the SLRP sets the College’s
strategic direction over a five-year period.
Guided by the SLRP, the College has several additional institutional plans that address key
initiatives. These plans include:
Baldrige Performance Excellence Plan
Equity Plan
Dual Credit Expansion Plan
Strategic Enrollment Management Plan
Institutional Marketing and Communications Strategic Plan
Institutional Advancement Strategic Plan
IT Strategic Plan
Facility Master Plan
5.B.3
As noted in the College’s Annual Budget document, the annual budget process begins with the
development of a baseline budget. The baseline budget is based on forecasted revenue levels over the
next five years. These revenue levels are calculated using the key budget assumptions detailed later in
the budget document. Next, assumptions are applied to projected expenditures to determine if a
budgetary gap exists. Following the identification of a budgetary gap, the college community is then
tasked with closing this gap by reviewing their strategic priorities and reallocating college resources
where appropriate.
Each department budget officer completes this exercise by reviewing their baseline operational
budget and making modifications to the baseline budget working with their area leadership using the
college’s budget development software. Once departmental budgets are reviewed, divisional and
college-wide budget reports are compiled and discussed with the President and Cabinet.
The Budget Office then prepares a proposed budget in accordance with the decisions made by the
President and Cabinet. The budget becomes the first year of a five-year financial forecast.
The remaining four years are calculated by applying assumptions regarding growth rates to reflect
inflation and the addition of new initiatives or programs. The President then presents the proposed
budget to the Board for approval. By statute, the Board must make the proposed budget available for
public inspection at least thirty (30) days before the Board’s final action on the budget.
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 105

The College also solicits feedback from the Board Budget Committee through the budget process.
The Budget Committee is the college-level advisory committee charged to more directly oversee the
process for developing the budget for review and approval by the entire Board, and to review and
recommend strategic policies, procedures, and programs to the President, Treasurer, and/or the
Board on matters relating to budget and resource allocation.
The Board votes on the approval of the annual budget within or before the first quarter of the fiscal
year in accordance with the Illinois Public Community College Act. Best practices are to approve the
next fiscal year’s budget prior to the expiration of the current fiscal year.
The College plans its annual budget cycle to adhere to this best practice. Commencing with its
adoption, the budget, on a line-by-line basis, is entered into the College’s fully computerized
encumbrance reporting system. This on-line system monitors all College expenditures during the
year, allowing for expenditures to be controlled within the limits established in the budget. The
system also summarizes the year-to-date performance of each department relative to the budget and
the above-mentioned budget priorities.
The College has three primary budgetary controls:
monitoring of actual monthly results to budget
processing and approval of procurement and personnel requisitions
approval of college expenditures
5.B.4
The College does not have a superordinate body to which it distributes revenue. Rather, the College
operates as a political subdivision of the state of Illinois with a locally elected Board of Trustees
which, as obligated by voters and governed by the Illinois Public Community College Act, oversees
the College’s resources, revenues and expenditures.
The College’s Annual Budget contains all anticipated revenues and expenditures for the fiscal year,
classified by fund type. A number of safeguards are built into the budgeting process to ensure that
allocations do not adversely affect core academic functions. At the state level, the College follows the
Illinois Community College Board’s Fiscal Management Manual on how to collect, allocate and
record revenues. The guidelines require independent audits and provide specifications on levying
taxes, using restricted funds, unrestricted funds and fund balances. Resource allocation for state-
funded capital improvement projects follows the Illinois Community College Board’s Resource
Allocation Management Process (RAMP) from which the Illinois General Assembly approves capital
projects based on then-current economic conditions.
Finally, the College’s 2021 Budget shows that the primary educational mission is supported with 96
percent of the budget, whereas the Auxiliary Fund that supports functions such as the McAninch Art
Center, etc. is approximately 4 percent of the budget. In addition, Auxiliary Fund revenues have
historically been slightly higher than expenditures, demonstrating that Auxiliary operations are self-
sufficient and do not affect or draw from the educational mission of the College.
Sources
Addison Center
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 106

annual budget 2021_2022
Annual Comprehensive Financial Report
annual-plan
appoints all FT fac BOT Agenda 2_24_22
Approved FMP
Baldrige Self Assessment Summary
Budget Committee
Carol Stream
College Policy Manual
College Policy Manual (page number 156)
Community College Act Ch 122 par 103 26
Dual Credit Expansion Plan
equity-plan
Facility Master Plan page
Fiscal Management Manual ICCB
Five-Year Enrollment forecasts
ICCB Rule 1501.303f
IL Community College Act
Information Technology Strategic Plan
Institutional Advancement Strategic Plan
Institutional MarComm Strategic Plan
January 2022 Board Mtg
July 2021 Board Minutes
Naperville
November 18 2021 audit finding
Performance Excellence Plan
Performance Management System
SLRP full graphic-final
Strategic Enrollment Plan
Westmont
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 107

5.C - Core Component 5.C
The institution engages in systematic and integrated planning and improvement.
1. The institution allocates its resources in alignment with its mission and priorities, including, as
applicable, its comprehensive research enterprise, associated institutes and affiliated centers.
2. The institution links its processes for assessment of student learning, evaluation of operations,
planning and budgeting.
3. The planning process encompasses the institution as a whole and considers the perspectives of
internal and external constituent groups.
4. The institution plans on the basis of a sound understanding of its current capacity, including
fluctuations in the institution’s sources of revenue and enrollment.
5. Institutional planning anticipates evolving external factors, such as technology advancements,
demographic shifts, globalization, the economy and state support.
6. The institution implements its plans to systematically improve its operations and student
outcomes.
Argument
5.C.1
The mission of the College is to be a center for excellence in teaching, learning, and cultural
experiences by providing accessible, affordable, and comprehensive education. With respect to
resource allocation and mission, the College has the main campus and four strategically positioned
centers throughout the District. Over the past several years, the centers were renovated to better meet
the teaching and learning needs, and to add Learning Commons.
Accessible
The College has invested in making education accessible to district residents. As previously noted, in
addition to a centrally located modern main campus, the college has four strategically located
regional centers which have been updated in order to provide many of the services that are available
on the main campus. In order to educate and keep the Board apprised on the center’s capacities and
operations, at the January 2022 Board meeting, they were provided with a detailed overview by the
Manager of Academic Outreach and Program Development, and the Interim Associate Vice
President for Academic Partnerships & Learning Resources.
Affordable
Over the years, the College has invested in improving infrastructure to ensure high quality education,
without placing an undue burden on students. Therefore, in keeping with the mission of providing
affordable education, at $138 per credit hour ($108 tuition, plus $30 fees), the College is significantly
below the state community college average of $149 per credit hour, as the 30
th 
 lowest, out of 38
Illinois community college districts for tuition cost.
Comprehensive
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 108

The College offers seven associate degrees in two general areas, baccalaureate transfer and career
and technical education. Baccalaureate transfer degrees include the Associate in Arts, Associate in
Science, Associate in Engineering Science, Associate in Fine Arts in Art, and the Associate in Fine
Arts in Music. The Associate in Applied Science degree provides education in more than 40 career
and technical programs. The College also offers an Associate in General Studies degree designed for
students who desire to arrange a program to meet their personal needs and interests.
The College has invested in and maintains a premier research Library for use by students and the
community at large. The Library maintains a collection containing 245,000 print and 303,000
electronic books; 263 print and 68,000 electronic journals and newspapers; 25,300 video recordings
and 97,000 streaming videos; 25,000 CD sound recordings and 63,000 eMusic files; 500
eAudiobooks; and 72,000 microfiche/microfilm. In addition, in 2019, the College opened a state-of-
the-art Media Lab, within the library. The lab provides space, resources, and expertise to support
students in creative uses of multimedia technology. Students can design, create, and share digital
audio, video, and images.
To help foster a well-rounded educational experience, the College has invested in more than 80
student clubs and organizations. With one of the premier outdoor athletic complexes in the nation for
a community college, the College offers eight men’s sports (baseball, basketball, cross country,
football, golf, soccer, tennis, and track) and seven women’s sports (basketball, cross country, soccer,
softball, tennis, track, and volleyball).
The College believes that it is important to listen and hear the voice of our key stakeholders with
respect to investment and mission accomplishment. Therefore, on about an 18 month cycle, using a
third-party vendor, the College commissions a Community PULSE Survey. In 2016, 2018, and 2019
surveys, respondents indicated that the College’s top three strengths, by a large margin, were:  1)
Location/Accessibility, 2) Variety of Classes/Programs, and 3) Cost/Value. Therefore, in the eyes of
our stakeholders, the College is providing accessible, affordable, and comprehensive education.
The College’s “north star” is the strategic pillar of Student Success. To that end, instruction
(primarily faculty salaries and instructional supplies) is the largest component of expenditures on a
function basis, accounting for an average of 35 percent of total expenditures across all funds. As the
College continues to make student success a major priority, significant investments have been made
in our Guided Pathways Initiative, which provides additional support services to our students. At 65
percent, support services expenditures have seen the largest percentage increase since FY2014.
Another key priority for the College is our Equity initiative. To that end, at their January 2022
meeting, the Board passed a resolution to allocate $300,000 for a DEI consultant to conduct cultural
assessment, provide DEI training, recommend changes to recruiting and hiring practices, and help
define the operational aspects of a Multicultural Center.
With respect to the cultural aspect of the College’s mission, the College has the McAninich Arts
Center (MAC), a conveniently accessible cultural arts and gathering place in DuPage County offering
exceptional entertainment and enriching programs. The building of the MAC was initially funded
through public support and private contributions, and since day one, the programs have been funded
entirely through box office revenue, grants, endowments, donations, and income generated through
rentals, concession sales, and program advertising. In addition to the MAC, in 2021, the College’s
Cleve Carney Museum of Art hosted the world-class “Frida Kahlo:  Timeless” exhibit. The exhibit
was a comprehensive presentation of the life and works of the artist, and that featured 26 original
pieces. In the future, the College is planning on hosting additional world-class exhibits, such as the
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 109

“Andy Warhol Portfolios:  A Life in Pop, Works from the Bank of America Collection,” coming to
the College in the summer of 2023.
The institution links its processes for assessment of student learning, evaluation of operations,
planning and budgeting.
5.C.2.
COD links its processes for assessment of student learning, evaluation of operations, planning and
budgeting. For example, the College uses the Program Review process to connect student learning
assessment, evaluation, planning, and budgeting for the academic programs. The College builds on
Illinois Community College Board (ICCB) program review requirements, which include analysis of
program need, cost effectiveness, and quality. Programs also evaluate their progress toward stated
goals and objectives. Data used in this evaluation process includes Student [learning] Outcomes
Assessment Project (SOAP) plans and results; demographics; completion rates; grade distributions;
program majors; and surveys of students, graduates, faculty, and administrators. Student surveys
include indirect assessment of program learning outcomes. From this process, each program develops
a Plan for Future Improvements. Faculty discuss their findings with the dean, AVP of Assessment
and Student Success, Director of Assessment, and CTE Program Improvement Manager. The College
links budget to this process through the division dean, supplemented with Perkins funding as
appropriate. For example, for the last few years, as a result of the Program Review discussions, the
Nursing Department was awarded over $85,000 in Perkins funding to improve student performance
on program student learning outcomes. Nursing faculty implemented a computerized testing system
for the Associate Degree Nursing program that extracts real-time, robust analytics for faster
curriculum revision and overall program improvement. As an early alert system, it provides access to
longitudinal outcomes to remediate performance of students. In addition, Nursing faculty piloted the
ATI Real Life 3.0 and Nurse’s Touch software, which are virtual clinical modules designed to help
students meet learning objectives related to critical thinking, clinical judgment, informatics, and
therapeutic communication. The AVP of Assessment and Student Success also considers program
review findings when planning for future initiatives.
In addition, under the Strengthening Career and Technical Education for the 21
st
 Century Act,
(Perkins V), conducts a Comprehensive Local Needs Assessment every two years. External and
internal partners worked together to review and assess Career and Technical Education at the
College, resulting in a COD 4-year CTE Strategic Plan. The College receives over $1.6 million
annually to support CTE program innovation and student improvement.  All activities in the
College’s annual plan must be in alignment with the CLNA and Strategic Plan. One major finding of
the CLNA was that the College did not provide direct resources (i.e. technology and textbook
assistance) that directly impact student success for special population students, and CTE program
faculty needed additional resources and support regarding Programs of Study that facilitate high
school to college transitions. These needs were addressed in the COD Perkins 4-year Strategic and
Annual Plans. The College changed Workforce Development Specialist from a part-time position to a
full-time position titled Workforce Development/Student Resource Specialist and added the
responsibility of coordinating direct support services to CTE special population students. Through
Perkins funds, the College also provided technology support through CTE Laptop and Hotspot Loan
program and provided qualified CTE students Textbook support through the College Bookstore.
Academic departments update and revise their Plan for Future Improvement and SOAPs through the
Annual Update process. Faculty submit Annual Updates to their deans each December. Deans can
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 110

then use this information to inform the following year’s budget and improvement priorities.
The Assessment and Student Success division also ties large-scale learning assessment planning and
improvement to budget and planning processes. This division includes Learning Assessment, Faculty
Professional Development (FPD), Curriculum, and Learning Technologies, allowing for integration
of improvements and budgeting related to learning assessment—including large-scale General
Education (GE) assessment projects. This division’s budget and planning priorities connected to
learning assessment include:
Developed a new department and budget, the Assessment Office, to facilitate GE assessment
and improvement planning and assist with annual SOAPs. This budget includes funds to
support GE assessment (faculty stipends and assessment tools).
Adopted Blackboard Outcomes Assessment to facilitate large-scale assessment artifact
collection and scoring. Learning Technologies assists with integration and training related to
this module.
FPD integration, including In-Service, speakers, and additional FPD workshops, with needs
identified in GE Improvement Plans.
Assistance for faculty in defining program outcomes and course objectives during the
curriculum development process. Added the Director of Assessment as a non-voting member of
the College Curriculum Committee.
The institution also engages in large institutional evaluation projects, including:
Community College Survey of Student Engagement (CCSSE)—includes indirect assessment of
some GE outcomes
Noel-Levitz Student Satisfaction Inventory (SSI)
PACE Employee Climate Survey
SWOT analysis
Community Pulse Survey
Future planning includes consideration of these projects. Examples include:
Further development of Guided Pathways at the College.
The SWOT and Pulse Survey have been used in the SLRP process.
Support and development of the Strategic Enrollment Management (SEM) Plan.
At this writing, Provost’s Leadership Team and Provost’s Council are reviewing the 2021
results of Noel-Levitz and CCSSE in conjunction with the FY2023 Annual Plan and budget
cycles.
The College’s Annual Plan process provides an additional example of the connections between
evaluation, planning, and budgeting. In the Annual Plan, cabinet officers identify Key Strategies that
the College will take to reach the Strategic Pillars and Goals of the Strategic Long Range Plan
(SLRP). The Annual Plan also identifies Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) that each Key Strategy
uses to assess/evaluate success. Cabinet officers link Strategies within their budgets to ensure
appropriate funding. The College tracks progress to these goals quarterly, and cabinet officers use
this information while planning future Priorities for the Annual Plan. See 5.C.3 for more information
about the SLRP and annual planning processes.
5.C.3
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 111

The strategic planning process involved the Board of Trustees (who are elected by and represent the
community), the Shared Governance Council (comprised of all College constituency group
representatives), Cabinet, and the Strategic Long Range Plan Advisory Committee (comprised of
individuals from all constituency groups). Additional internal perspectives are gained from students
through the Noel-Levitz and CCSSE surveys, and from the faculty and staff through the PACE
survey, and due to the COVID-19 pandemic, through a College-wide planning webinar. In addition
to the Board, external perspectives are obtained from the Community PULSE survey and from the
Environmental Scan.
With respect to the Annual Plan, all Cabinet officers work with their respective teams to develop and
implant annual strategies and action that will advance the strategic pillars forum in the Strategic
Long Range Plan. This is further cascaded down to individual goals found in the College’s
Cornerstone performance management system.
COVID-19 Response Plans
In March 2020, following the declaration of a pandemic by the World Health Organization, the
Illinois Governor issued a stay-at-home order. The actions of the College over the next two and a half
years demonstrates our ability to plan and execute rapidly in a dynamically changing environment. In
addition, a COVID-19 update is a standing agenda item on every Shared Governance Council
meeting. This permits Shared Governance Council to have direct input into emerging COVID-19
plans. In addition, at monthly Board meetings, Trustees receive a COVID-19 update from the Chief
COVID-19 Officer. A few aspects of COVID-19 planning include:
Educational Quality
To help ensure the quality of education delivery in different modalities, a comprehensive set of tools
and schedule of training were developed and implemented by the Learning Technologies
Department.
 Business Continuity
On-site staff included the Police Department and Facilities Department to ensure the security and
functional operation of the campus. Primary operational systems were remotely accessed by staff, and
maintained remotely and on-site as necessary.
Communication
Messaging was developed and delivered to key audiences in several ways (e.g., COVID-19 web page,
email, social media channel, Monthly Board meeting updates, etc.).
Resurgence
Once the stay-at-home order was lifted, the College planned for a measured way to bring staff and
students back to campus. This planning was done in unison with the Cabinet (who have a COVID-19
Update Meeting every week), and the Shared Governance Council who meets every two weeks.
 Vaccination/Testing
The Illinois Governor’s Executive Order 2021-20 stipulates that all higher education staff and
students must be fully vaccinated or submit to weekly testing. The College developed an automated
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 112

process for collecting vaccination records, and partnered with SHIELD Illinois to provide on-campus
testing.
Student and Faculty Input
To assess how well students and faculty were adapting to the virtual environment, and plan for how
to better meet their needs, the College executed several COVID-19 Experience surveys: 
Student COVID-19 Transition Survey (2020SP)
Student Check-in Survey (2020FA)
Faculty Check-in Survey (2020FA)
Course Format Survey (2020FA)
5.C.4
The institution plans based on evidence, fact, and sound forecasts for enrollment and revenue. With
input from the Vice President of Planning and Institutional Effectiveness on enrollment projections,
financial projections are developed initially during the budget planning process, and continue to be
updated throughout the budget development process. For example, during the fiscal year 2021 budget
cycle, the World Health Organization announced the COVID-19 pandemic, making the enrollment
and tuition revenue projections unrealistic. Immediately, the Vice President of Planning and
Institutional Effectiveness revised the projections to reflect what impact the pandemic would have on
enrollment.
The Budget Committee of the Board is also provided with information on enrollment trends and the
five-year forecast. The enrollment forecast is then used by the Budget Office to determine the amount
of tuition revenue the College can expect. In addition, the Budget Office determines property tax
revenues, state apportionment, and operational increases (salaries, health care, etc.) for the year.
Based on this data and information, a set of budget assumptions are developed. For example, the FY
2022 budget assumption included: 
Property Values: For FY2022, the College assumes a 2020 EAV of $48,116,350,401 (an
increase from 2019 of 3.6%).
The 2020 operating tax levy, of which the first collections will occur at the end of FY2021 in
June and the second collections will occur in FY2022 (September 2021), is at the same level as
the prior year’s tax request amount.
Credit Hours (Used for Tuition Revenue Estimate): For FY2022, the budget assumes an
enrollment decline of 6.5%. Estimated total credit hours are 391,690.
Student Tuition and Fees: For FY2022, the budget assumes no changes to the overall tuition
rate.
State Base Operating Grant: The College budget reflects level apportionment revenues equal to
the FY2021 allocations from the State of Illinois.
State On-Behalf Pension Costs: The budget assumes a 10% increase in on-behalf pension costs
and a 3% increase in the State Retiree Health Insurance costs.
Interest Revenue: The budget assumes investment rate of return equal to 0.25%.
Salaries: The salary pool was increased 1.9%-2.0% as the annual wage adjustments included in
the current labor contracts and employment agreements were equal to inflation plus 0.5%.
Health Insurance: Health insurance premiums are expected to increase by 6%.
After the budget has been developed and approved by the Board, each month actual results are
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 113

compared and analyzed against the budget. Budget variances are reported to the President and
department heads.
5.C.5
Anticipating evolving factors is evidenced by the fact based Environmental Scan used for planning
purposes. The College scans eight areas or taxonomies which include:  Competition; Demographics;
Economy; Education; Labor Force; Politics; Social Values/Life Style; and Technology. Within each
taxonomy, trends are identified, the probability of change for the next 3-5 years is forecasted and
noted as high, medium, or low, supporting rationale is provided for the trend and probability of
change, and finally, authoritative sources are noted.
During the last Scan, seventy-four total trends were identified, and 17 were identified during the
Implications Workshop as having the highest impact on the communities served by the College.
These 17 trends include:  Partnerships with Feeder Schools; Student Satisfaction; Poverty Level in
the District; Ethnic Diversity in the Population of the District; Illinois Budget Deficit; Worker Skill
Gap; Underprepared Students; Underprepared Students Attend Community Colleges; Demand for
Healthcare Workers; Shortage of Middle-Skill Workers; Accountability in Higher Education;
Affordability in Higher Education; Higher Education Funding in Illinois; Digital Technologies Affect
Learning and Careers; Longer Life Expectancy; Increased Demand for Technology Skills/ Training;
and Increased Use of Mobile Devices Leads to New Educational Opportunities and Strategies.
By identifying and understanding external trends in these taxonomies, the College develops plans to
proactively meet and address changing needs of our community, students, and other stakeholders.
Therefore, if you consider these 17 trends, the vast majority of them can be directly related or aligned
to a Strategic Pillar in the College’s Strategic Long Range Plan.
Further evidence that the College anticipates evolving external factors in its planning process
includes the implementation of the Equity Plan, Dual Credit Expansion Plan, Strategic Enrollment
Management Plan, and Institutional Marketing and Communications Plan as previously discussed in
5.B.2.
In addition, every five-years the College updates its Facility Master Plan. In 2018-2019, the
architectural firm of Perkins+Will led the College in an inclusive, collaborative, 9-month process to
develop a holistic master plan for the main campus and all four College centers. Utilizing expertise
in higher education master planning, Perkins+Will provided thought leadership in community
college trends including:  academic learning environments; workplace needs; student support;
student life; research; recreation; athletics; housing; transportation/parking; and utility infrastructure.
This effort included land use, facility needs identification and prioritization, space planning,
enrollment, transportation/parking, green open space planning, signage/wayfinding, energy
management, sustainability, resiliency, utility infrastructure.
5.C.6
At a high level, the 2022-2026 Strategic Long Range Plan (SLRP) guides the College to
systematically improving its operations and student outcomes. When designing the 2022-2026 SLRP,
two industry “best practices” were followed. First, identifying 3-4 strategic areas or pillars that the
College needs to succeed in, no matter what else happens, and second, designing a plan that is easy
to communicate, and cascade to all levels. The SLRP is comprised of four strategic pillars that are
meant to be accomplished over a five-year planning horizon. The first three strategic pillars are
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 114

intentionally “outward” facing strategies focusing on the needs of our students and the community.
The fourth pillar is “inward” facing, and focuses on creating an engaged, and highly effective
workforce. In addition, every pillar contains a goal related to diversity, equity, and inclusion.
The College’s SLRP is deployed through an Annual Plan, which identifies specific actions that the
College will take to reach its Strategic Pillars and Goals. The College’s Cabinet Officers are
accountable for the Key Strategies that make up the Annual Plan. Each Strategy is linked to a
Strategic Pillar, has a Key Performance Indicator (KPI), and defined Action Step, with quarterly due
dates. On a quarterly basis, the Cabinet collectively reviews the Action Plan’s progress and takes the
necessary action to keep the College on track for achieving each Strategy. The Fiscal Year 2021
Annual Outcomes Report, which relates to the 2017-2021 SLRP, shows that of the 20 key strategies,
16 (80 percent) were fully accomplished.
With the development of the 2022-2026 Strategic Long Range Plan, College leadership has embraced
the Baldrige framework as a way of leading, operating, and managing the institution. Therefore, in
2020, the College conducted a self-assessment based on the Baldrige Criteria Categories. As a result
of that assessment, the Fiscal 2022 Performance Excellence Plan was developed and implemented.
A key initiative focused on systematically improving student outcomes is the College’s Guided
Pathways. Over the past several years, with faculty and administration working collaboratively, the
College has implemented a Pathways model that is based on coherent and easy-to-follow programs of
study that are aligned with requirements for success in employment, and at the next stage of
education. Also, programs, support services, and instructional approaches such as academic and
career pathways, Center for Student Success/Navigators, Chaparral (First Year) Experience, and the
myACCESS Lab, have been put in place.
In 2017 and 2019, HLC Peer Reviewers identified the College’s assessment of the General Education
Outcomes as needing improvement. As a result, a General Education Assessment Plan, which
identifies a three-phase cycle, was developed and implemented by the Student Learning Assessment
Committee (SLAC). In addition, the College established an Assessment Office and hired a Director
of Student Learning Outcomes Assessment in July 2019 to help manage the student assessment
processes.
Using a continuous improvement approach, the College conducts Program Review for all academic
programs, on a five-year cycle. Year one consists of preparatory activities, and during year two, a
report for programs being reviewed is filed with the Illinois Community College Board. During the
last three years of the cycle, there are annual updates that explain discipline/program results,
reflection and any program modifications. Embedded in this model is the Student Outcomes
Assessment Project, a four step continuous improvement process which focuses on assessment,
analysis, and improvement.
In order to organize, analyze and more efficiently provide data and information to various
individuals, teams, and work groups, over the past three years the College, with the assistance of
ASR Analytics, has developed a functional data warehouse. In addition, the Office of Research has
develop a series of visual analytical dashboards designed to provide up-to-date statistical
disaggregated data by key factors. All dashboards provide the capability to subset (filter) the
statistical information presented by a variety of student and course level characteristics. The data
presented in these dashboards are automatically updated on a daily basis via the data warehouse.
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 115

Sources
$138 per credit hour
2017 CCSSE Report
2017 Noel-Levitz SSI Survey Results
2019 Pulse Survey Report
3.A.1_4.A.4_College Curriculum Committee
3.C_4.B_5.C.2_InService Teaching Learning Practice
3.C_5.C.2_ 2019 Strategic Plan FOR FPDAC REVIEW.Google Docs
4.A.1_2021 College of DuPage District 50201 Program Review Report
4.A.1_2021 College of DuPage District 50201 Program Review Report (page number 770)
4.A.1_PR meetings
4.A.1_Program Annual Update Template 2021.doc
4.B.1. and 4.B.2._How to Complete SOAP Summary
4.B.1_Critical Thinking Improvement Plan
Academic and Career Pathways
Advisory Committees
annual-plan
Assessment office budget summary FY21
Automated prcoess for collecting vax records
Baldrige Self Assessment Summary
Blackboard Outcomes Assessment BOT Approvals
Budget Committee
Center for Student Success
Chaparral (First Year) Experience
COD FY 2021 Perkins Annual Working Plan
College of DuPage District 502 CLNA_
College of DuPage District 50201 FY2021-2024-Strategic Plan
Community PULSE Pulse Survey
Cornerstone
Course Format Survey 2020 fa
COVID-19 update
COVID-19 web page
Creating Assignment Submission Links fo
Dual Credit Expansion Plan
Equity Plan 8 14 2020 Final
E-SCAN
Faculty Check-in Survey 2020fa
Fiscal Year 2021 Annual Outcomes
Guided Pathways Program
Institutional MarComm Strategic Plan
January 2022 Board Mtg
Library
Media Lab
MyACCESS Lab
offers
on-campus testing
PACE 2017 Report
Performance Excellence Plan
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 116

Performance Management System
planned resurgance
Program Review
ProposedAVP-AAGoalsforAY22-23
quarterly basis (action plans review)
revised enrollment tuition projections
SLRP full graphic-final
standing agenda item
Strategic Enrollment Plan
Student Check-in Survey 2020FA
Student Clubs and Organizations
Student COVID-19 Transition Survey (2020SP)
SWOT Analysis
visual analytical dashboards
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 117

5.S - Criterion 5 - Summary
The institution’s resources, structures, processes and planning are sufficient to fulfill its mission,
improve the quality of its educational offerings, and respond to future challenges and opportunities.
Summary
Strategic planning at the College is a continuous, inclusive process that guides the five-year direction
of the institution in meeting the current and future needs of students, and other stakeholders. Built on
the Strategic Long Range Plan, the College’s Annual Plan drives resource allocation through specific
actions that are defined by each Cabinet Officer, in addition to providing evidence on the progress
made towards advancing the College’s mission, and improving student success, cultivating arts and
culture, contribution to the region’s economic development, and enhancing the College’s
organizational culture.
In addition to the strategic and annual plans, the College engages in other key planning (e.g.,
Performance Excellence, Dual Credit, Strategic Enrollment Management, etc.), that are designed to
engage the workforce, and build capacity so that the College can respond to future challenges and
opportunities.
With almost $300 million in fund balance, and a Moody’s “Aaa” rating (Moody’s highest rating), the
College is in a very strong financial position. In addition, the College has a modern, state-of-the-art
campus. Over the past 15 years, the College has either constructed new or renovated all major
campus buildings, as well as renovating regional campuses. As a part of the construction and
renovations, the College has also grown its technological capabilities to better meet the emerging
needs of our students, staff, and the community.
Sources
There are no sources.
College of DuPage - Assurance Argument - Exported on 3/18/2022
Page 118